ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter,
"Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That
unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history,
inspiring us to tackle big problems and invest in moonshots. It led us to be a
pioneer in the development of AI and, since 2016, an AI-first company. We
continue this work under the leadership of Alphabet and Google CEO, Sundar
Pichai.

Alphabet is a collection of businesses -- the largest of which is Google. We
report Google in two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud, and all non-
Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Alphabet's structure is about
helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and
independence.

Access and Technology for Everyone

The Internet is one of the world's most powerful equalizers; it propels ideas,
people, and businesses large and small. Our mission to organize the world's
information and make it universally accessible and useful is as relevant today
as it was when we were founded in 1998. Since then, we have evolved from a
company that helps people find answers to a company that also helps people get
things done.

We are focused on building an even more helpful Google for everyone, and we
aspire to give everyone the tools they need to increase their knowledge,
health, happiness, and success. Google Search helps people find information
and make sense of the world in more natural and intuitive ways, with trillions
of searches on Google every year. YouTube provides people with entertainment,
information, and opportunities to learn something new. Google Assistant offers
the best way to get things done seamlessly across different devices, providing
intelligent help throughout a person's day, no matter where they are. Google
Cloud helps customers solve today's business challenges, improve productivity,
reduce costs, and unlock new growth engines. We are continually innovating and
building new products and features that will help our users, partners,
customers, and communities and have invested more than $150 billion in
research and development in the last five years in support of these efforts.

Making AI Helpful for Everyone

AI is a transformational technology that can bring meaningful and positive
change to people and societies across the world, and for our business. At
Google, we have been bringing AI into our products and services for more than
a decade and making them available to our users. Our journey began in 2001,
when machine learning was first incorporated into Google Search to suggest
better spellings to users searching the web. Today, AI in our products is

4\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
used by billions of people globally through features like autocomplete
suggestions in Google Search; translation across 133 languages in Google
Translate; and organization, searching, and editing in Google Photos.

Large language models (LLMs) are an exciting aspect of our work in AI based on
deep learning architectures, such as the Transformer, a neural network
architecture that we introduced in 2017 that helped with language
understanding. This led to the Bidirectional Encoder Representations from
Transformers, or BERT, in 2019 that helped Search understand the intent of
user search queries better than ever before.

Google was a company built in the cloud, and we continue to invest in our
Google Cloud offerings, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace,
to help organizations stay at the forefront of AI innovation with our AI-
optimized infrastructure, mature AI platform and world-class models, and
assistive agents.

We believe AI can solve some of the hardest societal, scientific and
engineering challenges of our time. For example, in 2020, Google DeepMind's
AlphaFold system solved a 50-year-old protein folding challenge. Since then,
we have open-sourced to the scientific community 200 million of AlphaFold's
protein structures which are used to work on everything from accelerating new
malaria vaccines to advancing cancer drug discovery and developing plastic-
eating enzymes. As another example, AI can also have a transformative effect
on climate progress by providing helpful information, predicting climate-
related events, and optimizing climate action. Using advanced AI and
geospatial analysis, Google Research has developed flood forecasting models
that can provide early warning and real-time flooding information to
communities and individuals.

As AI continues to improve rapidly, we are focused on giving helpful features
to our users and customers as we deliver on our mission to organize the
world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. With a bold
and responsible approach, we continue to take the next steps to make this
technology even more helpful for everyone.

Deliver the Most Advanced, Safe, and Responsible AI

We aim to build the most advanced, safe, and responsible AI with models that
are developed, trained, and rigorously tested at scale powered by our
continued investment in AI technical infrastructure. In December 2023, we
launched Gemini, our most capable and general model. It was built from the
ground up to be multimodal, which means it can generalize and seamlessly
understand, operate across, and combine different types of information,
including text, code, audio, images, and video. Our teams across Alphabet will
leverage Gemini, as well as other AI models we have previously developed and
announced, across our business to deliver the best product and service
experiences for our users, advertisers, partners, customers, and developers.

We believe our approach to AI must be both bold and responsible. That means
developing AI in a way that maximizes the positive benefits to society while
addressing the challenges, guided by our AI Principles. We published these in
2018, as one of the first companies to articulate principles that put
beneficial use, users, safety, and avoidance of harms above business
considerations. While there is natural tension between being bold and being
responsible, we believe it is possible -- and in fact critical -- to embrace
that tension productively.

Enable Organizations and Developers to Innovate on Google Cloud

AI is not only a powerful enabler, it is also a major platform shift.
Globally, businesses from startups to large enterprises, and the public sector
are thinking about how to drive transformation. That is why we are focused on
making it easy and scalable for others to innovate, and grow, with AI. That
means providing the most advanced computing infrastructure and expanding
access to Google's latest AI models that have been rigorously tested in our
own products. Our Vertex AI platform gives developers the ability to train,
tune, augment, and deploy applications using generative AI models and services
such as Enterprise Search and Conversations. Duet AI for Google Cloud provides
pre-packaged AI agents that assist developers to write, test, document, and
operate software.

Improve Knowledge, Learning, Creativity, and Productivity

Things that we now consider routine - like spell check, mobile check deposit,
or Google Search, Google Translate, and Google Maps - all use AI. As AI
continues to improve rapidly, we are focused on giving helpful features to our
users as we continue to deliver on our mission to organize the world's
information and make it universally accessible and useful.

While we have been integrating AI into our products for years, we are now
embedding the power of generative AI to continue helping our users express
themselves and get things done. For example, Duet AI in Google Workspace helps
users write, organize, visualize, accelerate workflows, and have richer
meetings. Bard allows users to collaborate with experimental AI with new
features that include image capabilities, coding support, and app integration.
Dream Screen, a new experimental feature in YouTube, allows for the creation
of AI-generated video or image backgrounds to Shorts by typing an idea into a
prompt.

5\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
We also know businesses of all sizes around the world rely on Google Ads to
find customers and grow their businesses -- and we make that even easier with
AI. With Performance Max, advertisers simply tell us their campaign goals and
share their creative assets, and AI will automatically produce and run a
highly effective ad campaign across all of Google's properties, to meet their
budget. Product Studio brings the benefits of AI to businesses of all sizes,
helping them easily create uniquely-tailored imagery featuring their products
-- for free. Additionally, we are experimenting with Search and Shopping ads
that are directly integrated into the AI-powered snapshot and conversational
mode in Search Generative Experience.

Build the Most Helpful Personal Computing Platforms and Devices

Over the years, our Pixel phones have incorporated AI compute directly into
the device and built experiences on top of it. Our latest Pixel devices were
built around AI, bringing the best AI-assistive experiences to our users, such
as Best Take, Magic Editor, and Audio Magic Eraser. As we look ahead, we are
designing our Android and Chrome operating systems with new AI-forward user
experiences.

Moonshots

Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only
incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time,
especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not
evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and
Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major
platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser.
Our early investments in AI started out as moonshots but are now incorporated
into our core products and central to future developments. We continue to look
toward the future and to invest for the long term, most notably for the
application of AI to our products and services, as well as other frontier
technologies such as quantum computing. As we said in the original founders'
letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we
believe in, as they are the key to our long-term success.

Privacy and Security

We make it a priority to protect the privacy and security of our products,
users, and customers, even if there are near-term financial consequences. We
do this by continuously investing in building products that are secure by
default; strictly upholding responsible data practices that emphasize privacy
by design; and building easy-to-use settings that put people in control. We
are continually enhancing these efforts over time, whether by enabling users
to auto-delete their data, giving them tools, such as My Ad Center, to control
their ad experience, or advancing anti-malware, anti-phishing, and password
security features.

Google

For reporting purposes Google comprises two segments: Google Services and
Google Cloud.

Google Services

Serving Our Users

We have always been committed to building helpful products that can improve
the lives of millions of people worldwide. Our product innovations are what
make our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the
world. Google Services' core products and platforms include ads, Android,
Chrome, devices, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Photos, Google Play,
Search, and YouTube, with broad and growing adoption by users around the
world.

Our products and services have come a long way since the company was founded
more than 25 years ago. While Google Search started as a way to find web
pages, organized into ten blue links, we have driven technical advancements
and product innovations that have transformed Google Search into a dynamic,
multimodal experience. We first expanded from traditional desktop browsers
into mobile web search, making it easier to navigate on smaller screens. As
new types of content surfaced on the internet, Universal Search made it
possible to search multiple content types, like news, images, videos, and
more, to deliver rich, relevant results. The introduction of new search
modalities, like voice and visual search, made it easier for people to express
their curiosity in natural and intuitive ways. We took that a step further
with multisearch, which lets people search with text and images at the same
time. Large language models like BERT and Multitask Unified Models, or MUMs,
have made it possible to express more natural language queries, vastly
improving the quality of results. Each advancement has made it easier and more
natural for people to find what they are looking for.

This drive to make information more accessible and helpful has led us over the
years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content both on the web
and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. People are consuming many
forms of digital content, including watching videos, streaming TV, playing
games, listening to music,

6\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
reading books, and using apps. Working with content creators and partners, we
continue to build new ways for people around the world to create and find
great digital content.

Fueling all of these great digital experiences are extraordinary platforms and
devices. That is why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android
mobile operating system, Chrome browser, and Chrome operating system, as well
as growing our family of devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to
be helpful and make people's lives easier by combining the best of our AI,
software, and hardware. This potential is reflected in our latest generation
of devices, such as the new Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro, and the Pixel Watch 2.
Creating products and services that people rely on every day is a journey that
we are investing in for the long-term.

How We Make Money

We have built world-class advertising technologies for advertisers, agencies,
and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. Our advertising
solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses through our wide
range of products across devices and formats, and we aim to ensure positive
user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building
deep partnerships with brands and agencies. AI has been foundational to our
advertising business for more than a decade. Products like Performance Max and
Product Studio use the full power of our AI to help advertisers find untapped
and incremental conversion opportunities.

Google Services generates revenues primarily by delivering both performance
and brand advertising that appears on Google Search & other properties,
YouTube, and Google Network partners' properties ("Google Network
properties"). We continue to invest in both performance and brand advertising
and seek to improve the measurability of advertising so advertisers understand
the effectiveness of their campaigns.

•Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will
click on leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Performance
advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable
results. Our ads tools allow performance advertisers to create simple text-
based ads.

•Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity for
advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other
interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers
deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their
brand-building marketing campaigns.

We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices
and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising
experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, including filtering
out invalid traffic, removing billions of bad ads from our systems every year,
and closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and
blocklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content.

In addition, Google Services increasingly generates revenues from products and
services beyond advertising, including:

•consumer subscriptions, which primarily include revenues from YouTube
services, such as YouTube TV, YouTube Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday
Ticket, as well as Google One;

•platforms, which primarily include revenues from Google Play from the sales
of apps and in-app purchases; and

•devices, which primarily include sales of the Pixel family of devices.

Google Cloud

Through our Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace offerings, Google Cloud
generates revenues primarily from consumption-based fees and subscriptions for
infrastructure, platform, collaboration tools and other cloud services.
Customers use five key capabilities from Google Cloud.

•AI-optimized Infrastructure: provides open, reliable, and scalable compute,
networking, and storage to enable customers to run workloads anywhere -- on
our Cloud, at the edge, or in their data centers. It can be used to migrate
and modernize IT systems and to train and serve various types of AI models.

•Cybersecurity: helps customers detect, protect, and respond to a broad range
of cybersecurity threats, with AI integrated to further strengthen security
outcomes, prioritize which threats to investigate, and identify attack paths,
as well as accelerate resolution of cybersecurity threats.

•Databases and Analytics: provides a variety of different types of databases
-- relational, key-value, in-memory -- to store and manage data for different
types of applications. Our Data Cloud also unifies data lakes, data
warehouses, data governance, and advanced machine learning into a single
platform that can analyze data across any cloud.

7\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
•Collaboration Tools: Google Workspace and Duet AI in Google Workspace provide
easy-to-use, secure communication and collaboration tools, including apps like
Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Meet, and more. These tools enable secure hybrid
and remote work, boosting productivity and collaboration. AI has been used in
Google Workspace for years to improve grammar, efficiency, security, and more
with features like Smart Reply, Smart Compose, and malware and phishing
protection in Gmail. Duet AI in Google Workspace helps users write, organize,
visualize, accelerate workflows, and have richer meetings.

•AI Platform and Duet AI for Google Cloud: Our Vertex AI platform gives
developers the ability to train, tune, augment, and deploy applications using
generative AI models and services such as Enterprise Search and Conversations.
Duet AI for Google Cloud provides pre-packaged AI agents that assist
developers to write, test, document, and operate software.

Other Bets

Across Alphabet, we are also using technology to try to solve big problems
that affect a wide variety of industries from improving transportation and
health technology to exploring solutions to address climate change. Alphabet's
investment in the portfolio of Other Bets includes businesses that are at
various stages of development, ranging from those in the R&D phase to those
that are in the beginning stages of commercialization. Our goal is for them to
become thriving, successful businesses. Other Bets operate as independent
companies and some of them have their own boards with independent members and
outside investors. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with
considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and
making important strides in their industries. Revenues from Other Bets are
generated primarily from the sale of healthcare-related services and internet
services.

Competition

Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive
technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business,
including, among others, from:

•general purpose search engines and information services;

•vertical search engines and e-commerce providers for queries related to
travel, jobs, and health, which users may navigate directly to rather than go
through Google;

•online advertising platforms and networks;

•other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio,
and television as our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both
online and offline;

•digital content and application platform providers;

•providers of enterprise cloud services;

•developers and providers of AI products and services;

•companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer hardware products,
including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms;

•providers of digital video services;

•social networks, which users may rely on for product or service referrals,
rather than seeking information through traditional search engines;

•providers of workspace communication and connectivity products; and

•digital assistant providers.

Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to develop and
distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace across our
businesses. For example, for advertising, competing successfully depends on
attracting and retaining:

•users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away,
largely on the basis of the relevance of our advertising, as well as the
general usefulness, security, and availability of our products and services;

•advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and
ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and
effective manner across a variety of distribution channels; and

•content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our
ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the
terms of our agreements with them.

8\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
For additional information about competition, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Ongoing Commitment to Sustainability

We believe that every business has the opportunity and obligation to protect
our planet. Sustainability is one of our core values at Google, and we strive
to build sustainability into everything we do. We have been a leader on
sustainability and climate change since Google's founding more than 25 years
ago.

Our sustainability work is focused on empowering individuals to take action,
working together with our partners and customers, and working to reduce our
carbon footprint across our operations and supply chain.

In 2020, we shared our aspiration to help individuals, cities, and other
partners collectively reduce one gigaton of their carbon equivalent emissions
annually by 2030. This is an ambitious vision that we have set to push us to
contribute meaningfully to helping with climate solutions beyond our own
operations and value chain.

In 2021, we set an ambitious goal to achieve net-zero emissions across all of
our operations and value chain, by 2030. To accomplish this, we aim to reduce
50% of our combined Scope 1, Scope 2 (market-based), and Scope 3 absolute
emissions (versus our 2019 baseline) before 2030, and plan to invest in
nature-based and technology-based carbon removal solutions to neutralize our
remaining emissions. We have formally committed to the Science Based Targets
initiative to seek their validation of our absolute emissions reduction
target.

One of the key levers for reducing emissions from our operations is
transitioning to clean energy. Since 2017, we have matched 100% of the
electricity consumption of our global operations with purchases of renewable
energy on an annual basis. However, because of differences in the availability
of renewable energy sources like solar and wind across the regions where we
operate--and because of the variable supply of these resources--we still need
to rely on carbon-emitting energy sources that power local grids. That is why
we set a goal to run on 24/7 carbon-free energy (CFE) on every grid where we
operate by 2030.

Achieving net-zero emissions and 24/7 CFE by 2030 are extremely ambitious
goals. We also know that our path to net-zero emissions will not be easy or
linear. Some of our plans may take years to deliver results, particularly
where they involve building new large-scale infrastructure with long lead
times. So as our business continues to evolve, we expect our emissions to rise
before dropping towards our absolute emissions reduction target.

To benefit the people and places where we operate, we have set goals to
replenish 120% of the freshwater volume we consume, on average, across our
offices and data centers by 2030 and to help restore and improve the quality
of water and health of ecosystems in the communities where we operate.

We also aim to maximize the reuse of finite resources across our operations,
products, and supply chains. Our circularity principles focus on designing out
waste from the start, keeping materials in use for as long as possible, and
promoting healthy materials--for our data centers, workplaces, and products.

More information on our approach to sustainability can be found in our annual
sustainability reports, including Google's Environmental Report. The contents
of our sustainability reports are not incorporated by reference into this
Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the
SEC. For additional information about risks and uncertainties applicable to
our commitments to attain certain sustainability goals, see Item 1A Risk
Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Culture and Workforce

We are a company of curious, talented, and passionate people. We embrace
collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address
complex challenges in technology and society.

Our people are critical for our continued success, so we work hard to create
an environment where employees can have fulfilling careers, and be happy,
healthy, and productive. We offer industry-leading benefits and programs to
take care of the diverse needs of our employees and their families, including
opportunities for career growth and development, resources to support their
financial health, and access to excellent healthcare choices. Our competitive
compensation programs help us to attract and retain top candidates, and we
will continue to invest in recruiting talented people to technical and non-
technical roles, and rewarding them well. We provide a variety of high quality
training and support to managers to build and strengthen their capabilities--
ranging from courses for new managers, to learning resources that help them
provide feedback and manage performance, to coaching and individual support.

At Alphabet, we are committed to making diversity, equity, and inclusion part
of everything we do and to growing a workforce that is representative of the
users we serve. More information on Google's approach to diversity can be
found in our annual diversity reports, available publicly at diversity.google.
The contents of our diversity reports are not incorporated by reference into
this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file
with the SEC.

9\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
As of December 31, 2023, Alphabet had 182,502 employees. We have work councils
and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, and we
are committed to supporting protected labor rights, maintaining an open
culture, and listening to all employees. Supporting healthy and open dialogue
is central to how we work, and we communicate information about the company
through multiple internal channels to our employees.

When necessary we contract with businesses around the world to provide
specialized services where we do not have appropriate in-house expertise or
resources, often in fields that require specialized training like cafe
operations, content moderation, customer support, and physical security. We
also contract with temporary staffing agencies when we need to cover short-
term leaves, when we have spikes in business needs, or when we need to quickly
incubate special projects. We choose our partners and staffing agencies
carefully, and review their compliance with Google's Supplier Code of Conduct.
We continually make improvements to promote a respectful and positive working
environment for everyone -- employees, vendors, and temporary staff alike.

Government Regulation

We are subject to numerous United States (U.S.) federal, state, and local, as
well as foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subjects, and
the scope of this coverage continues to broaden with continuing new legal and
regulatory developments in the U.S. and internationally. Like other companies
in the technology industry, we face increasingly heightened scrutiny from both
U.S. and foreign governments with respect to our compliance with laws and
regulations. Many of these laws and regulations are evolving and their
applicability and scope, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain.
Particularly with regard to AI; climate change and sustainability;
competition; consumer protection; content moderation; data privacy and
security; news publications; and reporting on human capital and diversity, we
have seen an increase in new and evolving laws and regulations, as well as
related enforcement actions and investigations, being proposed and implemented
in recent years by legislative and regulatory bodies around the world.

Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and could,
individually or in the aggregate, increase our cost of doing business, make
our products and services less useful, limit our ability to pursue certain
business models, cause us to change our business practices, affect our
competitive position relative to our peers, and/or otherwise harm our
business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.

For additional information about government regulation applicable to our
business, see Item 1A Risk Factors; Trends in Our Business and Financial
Effect in Part II, Item 7; and Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

Intellectual Property

We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and
contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We
have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international
trademarks, service marks, domain names, and copyrights. We have also filed
patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our
technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have
licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of
our rights to other parties. For additional information, see Item 1A Risk
Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available Information

Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is
located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy
Statements, and any amendments to these reports, is available on our investor
relations website, free of charge, after we file or furnish them with the SEC
and they are available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain
events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our
investor relations website also provides notifications of news or
announcements regarding our financial performance and other items that may be
material or of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor
events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. We also share Google news and
product updates on Google's Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, which
may be of interest or material to our investors. Further, corporate governance
information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance
guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available
on our investor relations website under the heading "Governance." The content
of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on
Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any
references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references
only.

10\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and
uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could
harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results, and
affect the trading price of our Class A and Class C stock.

Risks Specific to our Company

We generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising. Reduced
spending by advertisers, a loss of partners, or new and existing technologies
that block ads online and/or affect our ability to customize ads could harm
our business.

We generated more than 75% of total revenues from online advertising in 2023.
Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services,
digital publishers, and content providers can terminate their contracts with
us at any time. These partners may not continue to do business with us if we
do not create more value (such as increased numbers of users or customers, new
sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than
their available alternatives. Changes to our advertising policies and data
privacy practices, such as our initiatives to phase out third-party cookies,
as well as changes to other companies' advertising and/or data privacy
practices have in the past, and may in the future, affect the advertising that
we are able to provide. In addition, technologies have been developed that
make customized ads more difficult, or that block the display of ads
altogether, and some providers of online services have integrated these
technologies that could potentially impair the availability and functionality
of third-party digital advertising. Failing to provide superior value or
deliver advertisements effectively and competitively could harm our business,
reputation, financial condition, and operating results.

In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to correlate with overall
economic conditions. Adverse macroeconomic conditions have affected, and may
in the future affect, the demand for advertising, resulting in fluctuations in
the amounts our advertisers spend on advertising, which could harm our
financial condition and operating results.

We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide
products and services that are useful to users, customers, and other partners,
we may not remain competitive, which could harm our business, financial
condition, and operating results.

Our business environment is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our
businesses face changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent
introductions of rival products and services. To compete successfully, we must
accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant
and useful products, services, and technologies in a timely manner. As our
businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider
range of products and services. We must continue to invest significant
resources in technical infrastructure and R&D, including through acquisitions,
in order to enhance our technology, products, and services.

We have many competitors in different industries. Our current and potential
domestic and international competitors range from large and established
companies to emerging start-ups. Some competitors have longer operating
histories and well-established relationships in various sectors. They can use
their experience and resources in ways that could affect our competitive
position, including by making acquisitions and entering into other strategic
arrangements; continuing to invest heavily in technical infrastructure, R&D,
and in talent; initiating intellectual property and competition claims
(whether or not meritorious); and continuing to compete for users,
advertisers, customers, and content providers. Further, discrepancies in
enforcement of existing laws may enable our lesser known competitors to
aggressively interpret those laws without commensurate scrutiny, thereby
affording them competitive advantages. Our competitors may also be able to
innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee
the need for products and services before we do.

We are expanding our investment in AI across the entire company. This includes
generative AI and continuing to integrate AI capabilities into our products
and services. AI technology and services are highly competitive, rapidly
evolving, and require significant investment, including development and
operational costs, to meet the changing needs and expectations of our existing
users and attract new users. Our ability to deploy certain AI technologies
critical for our products and services and for our business strategy may
depend on the availability and pricing of third-party equipment and technical
infrastructure. Additionally, other companies may develop AI products and
technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies or more cost-
effective to deploy. Other companies may also have (or in the future may
obtain) patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit, or
interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our own AI products and
services.

Our financial condition and operating results may also suffer if our products
and services are not responsive to the evolving needs and desires of our
users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. As new and
existing technologies continue to develop, competitors and new entrants may be
able to offer experiences that are, or

11\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. These
technologies could reduce usage of our products and services, and force us to
compete in different ways and expend significant resources to develop and
operate equal or better products and services. Competitors' success in
providing compelling products and services or in attracting and retaining
users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers could harm
our financial condition and operating results.

Our ongoing investment in new businesses, products, services, and technologies
is inherently risky, and could divert management attention and harm our
business, financial condition, and operating results.

We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products,
services, and technologies in a wide range of industries beyond online
advertising. The investments that we are making across our businesses, such as
building AI capabilities into new and existing products and services, reflect
our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that are
helpful to users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers.
Our investments ultimately may not be commercially viable or may not result in
an adequate return of capital and, in pursuing new strategies, we may incur
unanticipated liabilities. Innovations in our products and services could also
result in changes to user behavior and affect our revenue trends. These
endeavors involve significant risks and uncertainties, including diversion of
resources and management attention from current operations, different
monetization models, and the use of alternative investment, governance, or
compensation structures that may fail to adequately align incentives across
the company or otherwise accomplish their objectives.

Within Google Services, we continue to invest heavily in devices, including
our smartphones, home devices, and wearables, which is a highly competitive
market with frequent introduction of new products and services, rapid adoption
of technological advancements by competitors, increased market saturation in
developed countries, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards,
continual improvement in performance characteristics, and price and feature
sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. There can be no assurance
we will be able to provide devices that compete effectively.

Within Google Cloud, we devote significant resources to develop and deploy our
enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and Google
Workspace, and we are advancing our AI platforms and models to support these
tools and technologies. We are incurring costs to build and maintain
infrastructure to support cloud computing services, invest in cybersecurity,
and hire talent, particularly to support and scale our sales force. At the
same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based
services. Pricing and delivery models are competitive and constantly evolving,
and we may not attain sufficient scale and profitability to achieve our
business objectives. Further, our business with public sector customers may
present additional risks, including regulatory compliance risks. For instance,
we may be subject to government audits and cost reviews, and any failure to
comply or any deficiencies found may expose us to legal, financial, and/or
reputational risks. Evolving laws and regulations may require us to make new
capital investments, build new products, and seek partners to deliver
localized services in other countries, and we may not be able to meet
sovereign operating requirements.

Within Other Bets, we are investing significantly in the areas of health, life
sciences, and transportation, among others. These investment areas face
intense competition from large, experienced, and well-funded competitors, and
our offerings, many of which involve the development of new and emerging
technologies, may not be successful, or be able to compete effectively or
operate at sufficient levels of profitability.

In addition, new and evolving products and services, including those that use
AI, raise ethical, technological, legal, regulatory, and other challenges,
which may negatively affect our brands and demand for our products and
services. Because all of these investment areas are inherently risky, no
assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful
or will not harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.

Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we may experience
downward pressure on our operating margin in the future.

Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of
factors, including changes in the devices and modalities used to access our
products and services; changes in geographic mix; deceleration or declines in
advertiser spending; competition; customer usage and demand for our products;
decreases in our pricing of our products and services; ongoing product and
policy changes; and shifts to lower priced products and services.

In addition, we may experience downward pressure on our operating margin
resulting from a variety of factors, such as an increase in the mix of lower-
margin products and services, in particular from the continued expansion of
our business into new fields, including products and services such as our
devices, Google Cloud, and consumer subscription products, as well as
significant investments in Other Bets, all of which may have margins lower
than those we generate from advertising. In particular, margins on our devices
have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our consolidated
margins due to pressures on pricing and higher cost of sales. We may also
experience

12\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
downward pressure on our operating margins from increasing regulations,
increasing competition, and increasing costs for many aspects of our business.
Further, certain of our costs and expenses are generally less variable in
nature and may not correlate to changes in revenue. We may also not be able to
execute our efforts to re-engineer our cost base successfully or in a timely
manner. Due to these factors and the evolving nature of our business, our
historical revenue growth rate and historical operating margin may not be
indicative of our future performance. For additional information, see Trends
in Our Business and Financial Effect and Revenues and Monetization Metrics in
Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect
them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brands as well as
affect our ability to compete.

Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual
property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our
control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our
products, services, and technologies. For example, effective intellectual
property protection may not be available in every country in which our
products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet.
Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be
sufficient or effective. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our
innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these
innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection
for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. There is always
the possibility that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient
or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable.

We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The
secrecy of such trade secrets and other sensitive information could be
compromised, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting
from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks.
For example, there is a risk that the word "Google" could become so commonly
used that it becomes synonymous with the word "search." Some courts have ruled
that "Google" is a protectable trademark, but it is possible that other
courts, particularly those outside of the U.S., may reach a different
determination. If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark,
which could result in other people using the word "Google" to refer to their
own products, thus diminishing our brand.

Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our
business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual
property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized
use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business
and harm our financial condition and operating results.

Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our
brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers,
customers, content providers, and other partners.

Our strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our
business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google Services, Google
Cloud, and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch
new and innovative products and services that better serve the needs of our
users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our
brands have been, and may in the future be, negatively affected by a number of
factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content
shared on our platforms, data privacy and security issues and developments,
and product or technical performance failures. For example, if we fail to
respond appropriately to the sharing of misinformation or objectionable
content on our services and/or products or objectionable practices by
advertisers, or otherwise to adequately address user concerns, our users may
lose confidence in our brands.

Furthermore, failure to maintain and enhance our brands could harm our
business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our success
will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue
to provide high-quality, trustworthy, innovative products and services that
are truly useful and play a valuable role in a range of settings.

We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that could harm our
business, financial condition, and operating results.

We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain
management, which could affect our ability to supply both our products and our
services.

We rely on contract manufacturers to manufacture or assemble our devices and
servers and networking equipment used in our technical infrastructure, and we
may supply the contract manufacturers with components to assemble the devices
and equipment. We also rely on other companies to participate in the supply of
components and distribution of our products and services. Our business could
be negatively affected if we are not able to engage these companies with the
necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage
fail to meet their

13\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make
adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements
with them.

We have experienced and/or may in the future experience supply shortages,
price increases, quality issues, and/or longer lead times that could
negatively affect our operations, driven by raw material, component
availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations,
logistics capacity, inflation, foreign currency exchange rates, tariffs,
sanctions and export controls, trade disputes and barriers, forced labor
concerns, sustainability sourcing requirements, geopolitical tensions, armed
conflicts, natural disasters or pandemics, the effects of climate change (such
as sea level rise, drought, flooding, heat waves, wildfires and resultant air
quality effects and power shutdowns associated with wildfire prevention, and
increased storm severity), power loss, and significant changes in the
financial or business condition of our suppliers. Some of the components we
use in our technical infrastructure and our devices are available from only
one or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on
favorable terms in the event of a supply chain disruption. A significant
supply interruption that affects us or our vendors could delay critical data
center upgrades or expansions and delay consumer product availability.

We may enter into long-term contracts for materials and products that commit
us to significant terms and conditions. We may face costs for materials and
products that are not consumed due to market demand, technological change,
changed consumer preferences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues.
For instance, because certain of our hardware supply contracts have volume-
based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of sales of our
devices decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased
materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could
make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and harm our financial
condition and operating results. Furthermore, certain of our competitors may
negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other
commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may affect
our supply.

Our devices have had, and in the future may have, quality issues resulting
from design, manufacturing, or operations. Sometimes, these issues may be
caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the
quality of our products and services does not meet expectations or our
products or services are defective or require a recall, it could harm our
reputation, financial condition, and operating results.

We require our suppliers and business partners to comply with laws and, where
applicable, our company policies and practices, such as the Google Supplier
Code of Conduct, regarding workplace and employment practices, data security,
environmental compliance, and intellectual property licensing, but we do not
control them or their practices. Violations of law or unethical business
practices could result in supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, harm to
key relationships, and damage to our reputation. Their failure to procure
necessary license rights to intellectual property could affect our ability to
sell our products or services and expose us to litigation or financial claims.

Interruption to, interference with, or failure of our complex information
technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively
provide our products and services, which could harm our reputation, financial
condition, and operating results.

The availability of our products and services and fulfillment of our customer
contracts depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and
communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage, interference, or
interruption from modifications or upgrades, terrorist attacks, state-
sponsored attacks, natural disasters or pandemics, geopolitical tensions or
armed conflicts, export controls and sanctions, the effects of climate change
(such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, heat waves, wildfires and
resultant air quality effects and power shutdowns associated with wildfire
prevention, and increased storm severity), power loss, utility outages,
telecommunications failures, computer viruses, software bugs, ransomware
attacks, supply-chain attacks, computer denial of service attacks, phishing
schemes, or other attempts to harm or access our systems. Some of our data
centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other
natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage,
and intentional acts of vandalism, and, in some cases, to potential
disruptions resulting from problems experienced by facility operators or
disruptions as a result of geopolitical tensions and conflicts happening in
the area. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and disaster recovery
planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural
disaster or pandemic, closure of a facility, or other unanticipated problems
affecting our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our
service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and
complex and have contained in the past, and may contain in the future, errors
or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in or failure of our
services or systems. Any of these incidents could impede or prevent us from
effectively offering products and providing services, which could harm our
reputation, financial condition, and operating results.

Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our
business, financial condition, and operating results.

14\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income,
and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues
accounted for approximately 53% of our consolidated revenues in 2023. In
addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international
operations expose us to other risks, including the following:

•restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign
exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in
countries outside the U.S.;

•sanctions, import and export controls, other market access barriers,
political unrest, geopolitical tensions, changes in regimes, or armed conflict
(such as ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine), any of which may
affect our business continuity, increase our operating costs, limit demand for
our products and services, limit our ability to source components or final
products, or prevent or impede us from operating in certain jurisdictions,
complying with local laws, or offering products or services;

•longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher
levels of payment fraud;

•an evolving foreign policy landscape that may adversely affect our revenues
and could subject us to litigation, new regulatory costs and challenges
(including new customer requirements), uncertainty regarding regulatory
outcomes, and other liabilities under local laws that may not offer due
process or clear legal precedent;

•anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and
other local laws prohibiting certain payments to government officials,
violations of which could result in civil and criminal penalties; and

•different employee/employer relationships, existence of works councils and
differing labor practices, and other challenges caused by distance, language,
local expertise, and cultural differences, increasing the complexity of doing
business in multiple jurisdictions.

Because we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report
our financial results in U.S. dollars, we have faced, and will continue to
face, exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we
hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant
fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies
have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our revenues and
earnings. Hedging programs are also inherently risky and could expose us to
additional risks that could harm our financial condition and operating
results.

We are exposed to fluctuations in the fair values of our investments and, in
some instances, our financial statements incorporate inherently subjective
valuation methodologies.

The fair value of our debt and equity investments may in the future be, and
certain investments have been in the past, negatively affected by liquidity,
credit deterioration or losses, performance and financial results of the
underlying entities, foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates,
including changes that may result from the implementation of new benchmark
rates, the effect of new or changing regulations, the stock market in general,
or other factors.

We measure certain of our non-marketable equity and debt securities, certain
other instruments including stock-based compensation awards settled in the
stock of Other Bet companies, and certain assets and liabilities acquired in a
business combination, at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, which is
inherently subjective and requires management judgment and estimation. All
gains and losses on non-marketable equity securities are recognized in OI&E,
which increases the volatility of our OI&E. The unrealized gains and losses or
impairments we record from fair value remeasurements in any particular period
may differ significantly from the gains or losses we ultimately realize on
such investments.

As a result of these factors, the value of our investments could decline,
which could harm our financial condition and operating results.

Risks Related to our Industry

People access our products and services through a variety of platforms and
devices that continue to evolve with the advancement of technology and user
preferences. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our
products and services developed for these interfaces, our business could be
harmed.

People access our products and services through a growing variety of devices
such as desktop computers, mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets,
video game consoles, voice-activated speakers, wearables (including virtual
reality and augmented reality devices), automobiles, and television-streaming
devices. Our products and services may be less popular on some interfaces.
Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for
its devices, and our products and services may not be available or may only be
available with limited functionality for our users or our advertisers on these
devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our
products on their devices. In addition, search queries may be undertaken via
voice-activated search, apps,

15\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
social media or other platforms, which could harm our business. It is hard to
predict the challenges we may encounter in adapting our products and services
and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to
devote significant resources to creating and supporting products and services
across multiple platforms and devices. Failing to attract and retain a
substantial number of new device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors,
developers, and users, or failing to develop products and technologies that
work well on new devices and platforms, could harm our business, financial
condition, and operating results and ability to capture future business
opportunities.

Issues in the development and use of AI may result in reputational harm and
increased liability exposure.

Our evolving AI-related efforts may give rise to risks related to harmful
content, inaccuracies, discrimination, intellectual property infringement or
misappropriation, defamation, data privacy, cybersecurity, and other issues.
As a result of these and other challenges associated with innovative
technologies, our implementation of AI systems could subject us to competitive
harm, regulatory action, legal liability (including under new and proposed
legislation and regulations), new applications of existing data protection,
privacy, intellectual property, and other laws, and brand or reputational
harm.

Some uses of AI will present ethical issues and may have broad effects on
society. In order to implement AI responsibly and minimize unintended harmful
effects, we have already devoted and will continue to invest significant
resources to develop, test, and maintain our products and services, but we may
not be able to identify or resolve all AI-related issues, deficiencies, and/or
failures before they arise. Unintended consequences, uses, or customization of
our AI tools and systems may negatively affect human rights, privacy,
employment, or other social concerns, which may result in claims, lawsuits,
brand or reputational harm, and increased regulatory scrutiny, any of which
could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.

Data privacy and security concerns relating to our technology and our
practices could harm our reputation, cause us to incur significant liability,
and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and
services. Computer viruses, software bugs or defects, security breaches, and
attacks on our systems could result in the improper disclosure and use of user
data and interference with our users' and customers' ability to use our
products and services, harming our business and reputation.

Concerns about, including the adequacy of, our practices with regard to the
collection, use, governance, disclosure, or security of personal data or other
data-privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could harm our business,
reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our policies and
practices may change over time as expectations and regulations regarding
privacy and data change.

Our products and services involve the storage, handling, and transmission of
proprietary and other sensitive information. Software bugs, theft, misuse,
defects, vulnerabilities in our products and services, and security breaches
expose us to a risk of loss or improper use and disclosure of such
information, which could result in litigation and other potential liabilities,
including regulatory fines and penalties, as well as reputational harm.
Additionally, our products incorporate highly technical and complex
technologies, and thus our technologies and software have contained, and are
likely in the future to contain, undetected errors, bugs, and/or
vulnerabilities. We continue to add new features involving AI to our offerings
and internal systems, and features that rely on AI may be susceptible to
unanticipated security threats as our and the market's understanding of AI-
centric security risks and protection methods continue to develop. We have in
the past discovered, and may in the future discover, some errors in our
software code only after we have released the code. Systems and control
failures, security breaches, failure to comply with our privacy policies,
and/or inadvertent disclosure of user data could result in government and
legal exposure, seriously harm our reputation, brand, and business, and impair
our ability to attract and retain users or customers. Such incidents have
occurred in the past and may continue to occur due to the scale and nature of
our products and services. While there is no guarantee that such incidents
will not cause significant damage, we expect to continue to expend significant
resources to maintain security protections that limit the effect of bugs,
theft, misuse, and security vulnerabilities or breaches.

We experience cyber attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to
our systems on a regular basis. Cyber attacks continue to evolve in
sophistication and volume, and inherently may be difficult to detect for long
periods of time. We have seen, and will continue to see, industry-wide
software supply chain vulnerabilities, which could affect our or other
parties' systems. We expect to continue to experience such incidents or
vulnerabilities in the future. Our efforts to address undesirable activity on
our platform may also increase the risk of retaliatory attack. In addition, we
face the risk of cyber attacks by nation-states and state-sponsored actors.
These attacks may target us or our customers, particularly our public sector
customers (including federal, state, and local governments). Geopolitical
tensions or armed conflicts, such as the ongoing conflict in the Middle East
and Ukraine, may increase these risks.

We may experience security issues, whether due to employee or insider error or
malfeasance, system errors, or vulnerabilities in our or other parties'
systems. While we may not determine some of these issues to be material at the

16\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
time they occur and may remedy them quickly, there is no guarantee that these
issues will not ultimately result in significant legal, financial, and
reputational harm, including government inquiries, enforcement actions,
litigation, and negative publicity. There is also no guarantee that a series
of related issues may not be determined to be material at a later date in the
aggregate, even if they may not be material individually at the time of their
occurrence. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to,
disable or degrade service provided by or otherwise sabotage systems change
frequently and often are recognized only after being launched against a
target, even taking all reasonable precautions, including those required by
law, we have been unable in the past and may continue to be unable to
anticipate or detect attacks or vulnerabilities or implement adequate
preventative measures.

Further, if any partners with whom we share user or other customer information
fail to implement adequate data-security practices, fail to comply with our
terms and policies, or otherwise suffer a network or other security breach,
our users' data may be improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. If an actual
or perceived breach of our or our business partners' or service providers'
security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security
measures would be harmed, we could lose users and customers, our trade secrets
or those of our business partners may be compromised, and we may be exposed to
significant legal and financial risks, including legal claims (which may
include class-action litigation) and regulatory actions, fines, and penalties.
Any of the foregoing consequences could harm our business, reputation,
financial condition, and operating results.

While we have dedicated significant resources to privacy and security incident
response capabilities, including dedicated worldwide incident response teams,
our response process, particularly during times of a natural disaster or
pandemic, may not be adequate, may fail to accurately assess the severity of
an incident, may not be fast enough to prevent or limit harm, or may fail to
sufficiently remediate an incident. As a result, we may suffer significant
legal, reputational, or financial exposure, which could harm our business,
financial condition, and operating results.

For additional information, see also our risk factor on privacy and data
protection regulations under 'Risks Related to Laws, Regulations, and
Policies' below.

Our ongoing investments in safety, security, and content review will likely
continue to identify abuse of our platforms and misuse of user data.

In addition to our efforts to prevent and mitigate cyber attacks, we are
making significant investments in safety, security, and review efforts to
combat misuse of our services and unauthorized access to user data by third
parties, including investigation and review of platform applications that
could access the information of users of our services. As a result of these
efforts, we have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover,
incidents of unnecessary access to or misuse of user data or other undesirable
activity by third parties. However, we may not have discovered, and may in the
future not discover, all such incidents or activity, whether as a result of
our data limitations, including our lack of visibility over our encrypted
services, the scale of activity on our platform, or other factors, including
factors outside of our control such as a natural disaster or pandemic, and we
may learn of such incidents or activity via third parties. Such incidents and
activities may include the use of user data or our systems in a manner
inconsistent with our terms, contracts or policies, the existence of false or
undesirable user accounts, election interference, improper ad purchases,
activities that threaten people's safety on- or off-line, or instances of
spamming, scraping, or spreading disinformation. While we may not determine
some of these incidents to be material at the time they occurred and we may
remedy them quickly, there is no guarantee that these issues will not
ultimately result in significant legal, financial, and reputational harm,
including government inquiries and enforcement actions, litigation, and
negative publicity. There is also no guarantee that a series of related issues
may not be determined to be material at a later date in the aggregate, even if
they may not be material individually at the time of their occurrence.

We may also be unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce our policies or
otherwise prevent or remediate any such incidents. Any of the foregoing
developments may negatively affect user trust and engagement, harm our
reputation and brands, require us to change our business practices in ways
that harm our business operations, and adversely affect our business and
financial results. Any such developments may also subject us to additional
litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result in monetary penalties
and damages, divert management's time and attention, and lead to enhanced
regulatory oversight.

Problematic content on our platforms, including low-quality user-generated
content, web spam, content farms, and other violations of our guidelines could
affect the quality of our services, which could harm our reputation and deter
our current and potential users from using our products and services.

We, like others in the industry, face violations of our content guidelines
across our platforms, including sophisticated attempts by bad actors to
manipulate our hosting and advertising systems to fraudulently generate
revenues, or to otherwise generate traffic that does not represent genuine
user interest or intent. While we invest significantly in efforts to promote
high-quality and relevant results and to detect and prevent low-quality
content and invalid traffic, we have been unable and may continue to be unable
to detect and prevent all such abuses or promote

17\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
uniformly high-quality content. Increased use of AI in our offerings and
internal systems may create new avenues of abuse for bad actors.

Many websites violate or attempt to violate our guidelines, including by
seeking to inappropriately rank higher in search results than our search
engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them. Such
efforts have affected, and may continue to affect, the quality of content on
our platforms and lead them to display false, misleading, or undesirable
content. Although English-language web spam in our search results has been
reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web
spammers will continue to seek inappropriate ways to improve their rankings.
Although we continue to invest in and deploy proprietary technology to detect
and prevent web spam on our platforms, there is no guarantee that our
technology will always be successful, and our users may have negative
experiences on our platforms if our technology fails to work as intended,
which may affect our users' decisions in continuing to use our platforms. We
also face other challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites,
including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of
low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. We are
continually launching algorithmic changes designed to detect and prevent abuse
from low-quality websites, but we may not always be successful. We also face
other challenges on our platforms, including violations of our content
guidelines involving incidents such as attempted election interference,
activities that threaten the safety and/or well-being of our users on- or off-
line, and the spreading of misinformation or disinformation.

If we fail to either detect and prevent an increase in problematic content or
effectively promote high-quality content, it could hurt our reputation for
delivering relevant information or reduce use of our platforms, harming our
financial condition and operating results. It may also subject us to
litigation and regulatory actions, which could result in monetary penalties
and damages and divert management's time and attention.

Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us
and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block,
degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which
could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers.

Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the
Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work
effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have
significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace,
including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile
communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of
these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take, measures that
could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our
products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to
support or facilitate our offerings, by charging increased fees to us or our
users to provide our offerings, or by providing our competitors preferential
access. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms
of discrimination by internet access providers; however, substantial
uncertainty exists in the U.S. and elsewhere regarding such protections. For
example, in 2018 the U.S. Federal Communications Commission repealed net
neutrality rules, which could permit internet access providers to restrict,
block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services.
In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been
subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. These could harm
existing key relationships, including with our users, customers, advertisers,
and/or content providers, and impair our ability to attract new ones; harm our
reputation; and increase costs, thereby negatively affecting our business.

Risks Related to Laws, Regulations, and Policies

We are subject to a variety of new, existing, and changing laws and
regulations worldwide that could harm our business, and will likely be subject
to an even broader scope of laws and regulations as we continue to expand our
business.

We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a
wide variety of subjects, and our introduction of new businesses, products,
services, and technologies will likely continue to subject us to additional
laws and regulations. In recent years, governments around the world have
proposed and adopted a large number of new laws and regulations relevant to
the digital economy, particularly in the areas of data privacy and security,
competition, environmental, social and governance (ESG) requirements, AI, and
online content. The costs of compliance with these measures are high and are
likely to increase in the future.

New or changing laws and regulations, or new interpretations or applications
of existing laws and regulations in a manner inconsistent with our practices,
have resulted in, and may continue to result in, less useful products and
services, altered business practices, limited ability to pursue certain
business models or offer certain products and services, substantial costs, and
civil or criminal liability. Examples include laws and regulations regarding:

•Competition and technology platforms' business practices: Laws and
regulations focused on large technology platforms, including the Digital
Markets Act in the European Union (EU); regulations and legal

18\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
settlements in the U.S., South Korea, and elsewhere that affect Google Play's
billing policies, fees, and business model; as well as litigation and new
regulations under consideration in a range of jurisdictions.

•AI: Laws and regulations focused on the development, use, and provision of AI
technologies and other digital products and services, which could result in
monetary penalties or other regulatory actions. For example, while legislative
text has yet to be finalized and formally approved, provisional political
agreement on a proposed EU AI Act was reached between co-legislators in
December 2023, including that specific transparency and other requirements
would be introduced for general purpose AI systems and the models on which
those systems are based. In addition, the White House's Executive Order on the
Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence
devises a framework for the U.S. government, among other things, to regulate
private sector use and development of certain foundation models.

•Data privacy, collection, and processing: Laws and regulations further
restricting the collection, processing, and/or sharing of user or advertising-
related data, including privacy and data protection laws; laws affecting the
processing of children's data (as discussed further below), data breach
notification laws, and laws limiting data transfers (including data
localization laws).

•Copyright and other intellectual property: Copyright and related laws,
including the EU Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market and
European Economic Area transpositions, which may introduce new licensing
regimes, increase liability with respect to content uploaded by users or
linked to from our platforms, or create property rights in news publications
that could require payments to news agencies and publishers, which may result
in other regulatory actions.

•Content moderation: Various laws covering content moderation and removal, and
related disclosure obligations, such as the EU's Digital Services Act,
Florida's Senate Bill 7072 and Texas' House Bill 20, and laws and proposed
legislation in Singapore, Australia, and the United Kingdom that impose
penalties for failure to remove certain types of content or require disclosure
of information about the operation of our services and algorithms, which may
make it harder for services like Google Search and YouTube to detect and deal
with low-quality, deceptive, or harmful content.

•Consumer protection: Consumer protection laws, including the EU's New Deal
for Consumers, which could result in monetary penalties and create a range of
new compliance obligations.

In addition, the applicability and scope of these and other laws and
regulations, as interpreted by courts, regulators, or administrative bodies,
remain uncertain and could be interpreted in ways that harm our business. For
example, we rely on statutory safe harbors, like those set forth in the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Section 230 of the Communications Decency
Act in the U.S. and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, to protect against
liability for various linking, caching, ranking, recommending, and hosting
activities. Legislation or court rulings affecting these safe harbors may
adversely affect us and may impose significant operational challenges. There
are legislative proposals and pending litigation in the U.S., EU, and around
the world that could diminish or eliminate safe harbor protection for websites
and online platforms. Our development, use, and commercialization of AI
products and services (including our implementation of AI in our offerings and
internal systems) could subject us to regulatory action and legal liability,
including under specific legislation regulating AI, as well as new
applications of existing data protection, cybersecurity, privacy, intellectual
property, and other laws.

We are and may continue to be subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and
government investigations, enforcement actions, consent orders, and other
forms of regulatory scrutiny and legal liability that could harm our business,
reputation, financial condition, and operating results.

We are subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations,
other proceedings, and orders involving competition, intellectual property,
data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment,
commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services
offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, and
other matters. We are also subject to a variety of claims including product
warranty, product liability, and consumer protection claims related to product
defects, among other litigation, and we may also be subject to claims
involving health and safety, hazardous materials usage, other environmental
effects, AI training, development, and commercialization, or service
disruptions or failures. Claims have been brought, and we expect will continue
to be brought, against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract,
copyright and trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity,
torts, privacy rights violations, fraud, or other legal theories based on the
nature and content of information available on or via our services, the design
and effect of our products and services, or due to our involvement in hosting,
transmitting, marketing, branding, or providing access to content created by
third parties.

19\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
For example, in December 2023, a California jury delivered a verdict in Epic
Games v. Google finding that Google violated antitrust laws related to Google
Play's billing practices. The presiding judge will determine remedies in 2024
and the range of potential remedies vary widely. We plan to appeal. In
addition, the U.S. Department of Justice, various U.S. states, and other
plaintiffs have filed several antitrust lawsuits about various aspects of our
business, including our advertising technologies and practices, the operation
and distribution of Google Search, and the operation and distribution of the
Android operating system and Play Store. Other regulatory agencies in the U.S.
and around the world, including competition enforcers, consumer protection
agencies, and data protection authorities, have challenged and may continue to
challenge our business practices and compliance with laws and regulations. We
are cooperating with these investigations and defending litigation or
appealing decisions where appropriate.

Various laws, regulations, investigations, enforcement lawsuits, and
regulatory actions have involved in the past, and may in the future result in
substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing monitoring and
auditing obligations, changes to our products and services, alterations to our
business models and operations, including divestiture, and collateral related
civil litigation or other adverse consequences, all of which could harm our
business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.

Any of these legal proceedings could result in legal costs, diversion of
management resources, negative publicity and other harms to our business.
Estimating liabilities for our pending proceedings is a complex, fact-
specific, and speculative process that requires significant judgment, and the
amounts we are ultimately liable for may be less than or exceed our estimates.
The resolution of one or more such proceedings has resulted in, and may in the
future result in, additional substantial fines, penalties, injunctions, and
other sanctions that could harm our business, reputation, financial condition,
and operating results.

For additional information about the ongoing material legal proceedings to
which we are subject, see Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

Privacy, data protection, and data usage regulations are complex and rapidly
evolving areas. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws could
harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.

Authorities around the world have adopted and are considering a number of
legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, data usage,
and encryption of user data. Adverse legal rulings, legislation, or regulation
have resulted in, and may continue to result in, fines and orders requiring
that we change our practices, which have had and could continue to have an
adverse effect on how we provide services, harming our business, reputation,
financial condition, and operating results. These laws and regulations are
evolving and subject to interpretation, and compliance obligations could cause
us to incur substantial costs or harm the quality and operations of our
products and services in ways that harm our business. Examples of these laws
include:

•The General Data Protection Regulation and the United Kingdom General Data
Protection Regulations, which apply to all of our activities conducted from an
establishment in the EU or the United Kingdom, respectively, or related to
products and services that we offer to EU or the United Kingdom users or
customers, respectively, or the monitoring of their behavior in the EU or the
UK, respectively.

•Various comprehensive U.S. state and foreign privacy laws, which give new
data privacy rights to their respective residents (including, in California, a
private right of action in the event of a data breach resulting from our
failure to implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and
practices) and impose significant obligations on controllers and processors of
consumer data.

•State laws governing the processing of biometric information, such as the
Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act and the Texas Capture or Use of
Biometric Identifier Act, which impose obligations on businesses that collect
or disclose consumer biometric information.

•Various federal, state, and foreign laws governing how companies provide age
appropriate experiences to children and minors, including the collection and
processing of children and minor's data. These include the Children's Online
Privacy Protection Act of 1998, and the United Kingdom Age-Appropriate Design
Code, all of which address the use and disclosure of the personal data of
children and minors and impose obligations on online services or products
directed to or likely to be accessed by children.

•The California Internet of Things Security Law, which regulates the security
of data used in connection with internet-connected devices.

•The EU's Digital Markets Act, which will require in-scope companies to obtain
user consent for combining data across certain products and require search
engines to share anonymized data with rival companies, among other changes.

20\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
Further, we are subject to evolving laws and regulations that dictate whether,
how, and under what circumstances we can transfer, process and/or receive
personal data, as well as ongoing enforcement actions from supervisory
authorities related to cross-border transfers of personal data. The validity
of various data transfer mechanisms we currently rely upon remains subject to
legal, regulatory, and political developments in both Europe and the U.S.,
which may require us to adapt our existing arrangements.

We face, and may continue to face, intellectual property and other claims that
could be costly to defend, result in significant damage awards or other costs
(including indemnification awards), and limit our ability to use certain
technologies.

We, like other internet, technology, and media companies, are frequently
subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations
of intellectual property rights, including patent, copyright, trade secrets,
and trademarks. Parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by
filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International
Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease-and-desist orders. In addition,
patent-holding companies may frequently seek to generate income from patents
they have obtained by bringing claims against us. As we continue to expand our
business, the number of intellectual property claims against us has increased
and may continue to increase as we develop and acquire new products, services,
and technologies.

Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of monetary
damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at
all), or orders limiting our ability to sell our products and services in the
U.S. or elsewhere, including by preventing us from offering certain features,
functionalities, products, or services in certain jurisdictions. They may also
cause us to change our business practices in ways that could result in a loss
of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business.

Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain
suppliers, require us to defend against certain intellectual property
infringement claims and in some cases indemnify them for certain intellectual
property infringement claims against them, which could result in increased
costs for defending such claims or significant damages if there were an
adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also
discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result
of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and harm
our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by
our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered
by us and our customers arising from intellectual property infringement
claims. Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and
may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential
liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims.
Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims are often time
consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. To the extent such claims are
successful, they could harm our business, including our product and service
offerings, financial condition, and operating results.

Expectations relating to ESG considerations could expose us to potential
liabilities, increased costs, and reputational harm.

We are subject to laws, regulations, and other measures that govern a wide
range of topics, including those related to matters beyond our core products
and services. For instance, new laws, regulations, policies, and international
accords relating to ESG matters, including sustainability, climate change,
human capital, and diversity, are being developed and formalized in Europe,
the U.S., and elsewhere, which may entail specific, target-driven frameworks
and/or disclosure requirements. We have implemented robust ESG programs,
adopted reporting frameworks and principles, and announced a number of goals
and initiatives. The implementation of these goals and initiatives may require
considerable investments, and our goals, with all of their contingencies,
dependencies, and in certain cases, reliance on third-party verification
and/or performance, are complex and ambitious, and may change. We cannot
guarantee that our goals and initiatives will be fully realized on the
timelines we expect or at all, and projects that are completed as planned may
not achieve the results we anticipate. Any failure, or perceived failure, by
us to adhere to our public statements, comply fully with developing
interpretations of ESG laws and regulations, or meet evolving and varied
stakeholder expectations and standards could harm our business, reputation,
financial condition, and operating results.

We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or
international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities.

We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection obligations in the
U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates are affected
by a variety of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings in
jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, net gains and losses on
hedges and related transactions under our foreign exchange risk management
program, changes in our stock price for shares issued as employee
compensation, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or
liabilities, and the application of different provisions of tax laws or
changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles (including changes
in the interpretation of existing laws). Further, if we are

21\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
unable or fail to collect taxes on behalf of customers, employees and partners
as the withholding agent, we could become liable for taxes that are levied
against third parties.

We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax
authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive,
assessments in multiple jurisdictions, on various tax-related assertions, such
as transfer-pricing adjustments or permanent-establishment claims. Any adverse
outcome of such a review or audit could harm our financial condition and
operating results, require adverse changes to our business practices, or
subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries. In addition, the
determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax
liabilities requires significant judgment and often involves uncertainty.
Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may
differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may affect
our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is
made.

Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies,
laws, or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant changes
in ways that could harm our financial condition and operating results. For
example, various jurisdictions around the world have enacted or are
considering revenue-based taxes such as digital services taxes and other
targeted taxes, which could lead to inconsistent and potentially overlapping
international tax regimes. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) is coordinating negotiations among more than 140 countries
with the goal of achieving consensus around substantial changes to
international tax policies, including the implementation of a minimum global
effective tax rate of 15%. Our effective tax rate and cash tax payments could
increase in future years as a result of these changes.

Risks Related to Ownership of our Stock

We cannot guarantee that any share repurchase program will be fully
consummated or will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases
could increase the volatility of our stock prices and could diminish our cash
reserves.

We engage in share repurchases of our Class A and Class C stock from time to
time in accordance with authorizations from the Board of Directors of
Alphabet. Our repurchase program does not have an expiration date and does not
obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any
specific number of shares. Further, our share repurchases could affect our
share trading prices, increase their volatility, reduce our cash reserves and
may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in
the trading prices of our stock.

The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders' ability to
influence corporate matters.

Our Class B stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A stock has one vote per
share, and our Class C stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2023,
Larry Page and Sergey Brin beneficially owned approximately 86.5% of our
outstanding Class B stock, which represented approximately 51.5% of the voting
power of our outstanding common stock. Through their stock ownership, Larry
and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder
approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate
transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for
the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C stock carries no
voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the
Class C stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to
fund employee equity incentive programs, could continue Larry and Sergey's
current relative voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors
and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our
stockholders. The share repurchases made pursuant to our repurchase program
may also affect Larry and Sergey's relative voting power. This concentrated
control limits or severely restricts other stockholders' ability to influence
corporate matters and we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not
view as beneficial, which could reduce the market price of our Class A stock
and our Class C stock.

Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a
takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.

Provisions in Alphabet's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the
effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our
management. These provisions include the following:

•Our Board of Directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy
created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death,
or removal of a director.

•Our stockholders may not act by written consent, which makes it difficult to
take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting.

•Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election
of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect
director candidates.

22\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
•Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election
to the Board of Directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a
stockholders' meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential
acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own
slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company.

•Our Board of Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of
undesignated preferred stock, which makes it possible for our Board of
Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences
that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.

As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-
takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a
business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting
stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other
things, the Board of Directors has approved the transaction. Our Board of
Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us.

The trading price for our Class A stock and non-voting Class C stock may
continue to be volatile.

The trading price of our stock has at times experienced significant volatility
and may continue to be volatile. In addition to the factors discussed in this
report, the trading prices of our Class A stock and Class C stock have
fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate widely, in response to various
factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others, the
activities of our peers and changes in broader economic and political
conditions around the world. These broad market and industry factors could
harm the market price of our Class A stock and our Class C stock, regardless
of our actual operating performance.

General Risks

Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to
predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations.

Our operating results have fluctuated, and may in the future fluctuate, as a
result of a number of factors, many outside of our control, including the
cyclical nature and seasonality in our business and geopolitical events. As a
result, comparing our operating results (including our expenses as a
percentage of our revenues) on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful,
and our past results should not be relied on as an indication of our future
performance. Consequently, our operating results in future quarters may fall
below expectations.

Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in
operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that could harm our
business, financial condition, and operating results.

Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures are important
elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these
transactions could be material to our financial condition and operating
results. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions
regarding a wide array of such potential strategic arrangements, which could
create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Some of the areas
where we face risks include:

•diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to
challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic arrangements;

•failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from
governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among
other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise
restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of a
transaction;

•failure to successfully integrate the acquired operations, technologies,
services, and personnel (including cultural integration and retention of
employees) and further develop the acquired business or technology;

•implementation of controls (or remediation of control deficiencies),
procedures, and policies at the acquired company;

•integration of the acquired company's accounting and other administrative
systems, and the coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing
functions;

•transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms;

•in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across
different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic,
currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries;

•failure to accomplish commercial, strategic or financial objectives with
respect to investments, joint ventures, and other strategic arrangements;

•failure to realize the value of investments and joint ventures due to a lack
of liquidity;

23\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
•liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition,
including patent and trademark infringement claims, data privacy and security
issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, warranty
claims, product liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; and

•litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including
claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other
third parties.

Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection
with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic arrangements could
cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated
liabilities, and harm our business generally.

Our acquisitions and other strategic arrangements could also result in
dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt,
contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill
and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which
could harm our financial condition and operating results. Also, the
anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions and other strategic
arrangements may not materialize. In connection with our divestitures, we have
agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain
potential liabilities, which could harm our financial condition and operating
results.

We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or
motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain and continue to
adapt our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow or operate
effectively.

Our performance and future success depends in large part upon the continued
service of key technical leads as well as members of our senior management
team. For instance, Sundar Pichai is critical to the overall management of
Alphabet and its subsidiaries and plays an important role in the development
of our technology, maintaining our culture, and setting our strategic
direction.

Our ability to compete effectively and our future success depend on our
continuing to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled
personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for
qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly
targeted, and may continue to target, our employees. In addition, our
compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always
be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our
existing employees. Restrictive immigration policy and regulatory changes may
also affect our ability to hire, mobilize, or retain some of our global
talent. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees,
and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies.

In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation,
creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows and evolves, we may need
to adapt our corporate culture and work environments to ever-changing
circumstances, such as during times of a natural disaster or pandemic, and
these changes could affect our ability to compete effectively or have an
adverse effect on our corporate culture. Under our hybrid work models, we may
experience increased costs and/or disruption, in addition to potential effects
on our ability to operate effectively and maintain our corporate culture.

ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

Not applicable.

ITEM 1C.  CYBERSECURITY

We maintain a comprehensive process for identifying, assessing, and managing
material risks from cybersecurity threats as part of our broader risk
management system and processes. We obtain input, as appropriate, for our
cybersecurity risk management program on the security industry and threat
trends from multiple external experts and internal threat intelligence teams.
Teams of dedicated privacy, safety, and security professionals oversee
cybersecurity risk management and mitigation, incident prevention, detection,
and remediation. Leadership for these teams are professionals with deep
cybersecurity expertise across multiple industries, including our Vice
President of Privacy, Safety, and Security Engineering. Our executive
leadership team, along with input from the above teams, are responsible for
our overall enterprise risk management system and processes and regularly
consider cybersecurity risks in the context of other material risks to the
company.

As part of our cybersecurity risk management system, our incident management
teams track and log privacy and security incidents across Alphabet, our
vendors, and other third-party service providers to remediate and resolve any
such incidents. Significant incidents are reviewed regularly by a cross-
functional working group to determine whether further escalation is
appropriate. Any incident assessed as potentially being or potentially
becoming material is immediately escalated for further assessment, and then
reported to designated members of our senior management. We consult with
outside counsel as appropriate, including on materiality analysis and
disclosure matters, and our

24\.

* * *

| | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Table of Contents| Alphabet Inc.  
  
senior management makes the final materiality determinations and disclosure
and other compliance decisions. Our management apprises Alphabet's independent
public accounting firm of matters and any relevant developments.

The Audit and Compliance Committee has oversight responsibility for risks and
incidents relating to cybersecurity threats, including compliance with
disclosure requirements, cooperation with law enforcement, and related effects
on financial and other risks, and it reports any findings and recommendations,
as appropriate, to the full Board for consideration. Senior management
regularly discusses cyber risks and trends and, should they arise, any
material incidents with the Audit and Compliance Committee. Internal Audit
maintains a dedicated cybersecurity auditing team that independently tests our
cybersecurity controls.

Our business strategy, results of operations and financial condition have not
been materially affected by risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a
result of previously identified cybersecurity incidents, but we cannot provide
assurance that they will not be materially affected in the future by such
risks or any future material incidents. For more information on our
cybersecurity related risks, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

ITEM 2.PROPERTIES

Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We own and lease
office facilities and data centers around the world, primarily in Asia,
Europe, and North America. We believe our existing facilities are in good
condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.

ITEM 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, see Legal Matters
in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part
II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

PART II

