Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Based on an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the
Company's management, the Company's principal executive officer and principal
financial officer have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and
procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act
were effective as of September 30, 2023 to provide reasonable assurance that
information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files
or submits under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms and (ii)
accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to
allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Inherent Limitations over Internal Controls

The Company's internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
GAAP. The Company's internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that:

(i)pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
Company's assets;

(ii)provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and
that the Company's receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of the Company's management and directors; and

(iii)provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company's assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company's internal controls will
prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how
well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute,
assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the
design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource
constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their
costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no
evaluation of internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all
control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Also, any
evaluation of the effectiveness of controls in future periods are subject to
the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because of changes
in business conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule
13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act). Management conducted an assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based
on the criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013
framework). Based on the Company's assessment, management has concluded that
its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September
30, 2023 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance
with GAAP. The Company's independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst
& Young LLP, has issued an audit report on the Company's internal control over
financial reporting, which appears in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in the Company's internal control over financial
reporting during the fourth quarter of 2023, which were identified in
connection with management's evaluation required by paragraph (d) of Rules
13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, or
are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control
over financial reporting.

Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 52

* * *

  

