ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Our Company

NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to help solve the most challenging
computational problems. Since our original focus on PC graphics, we have
expanded to several other large and important computationally intensive
fields. Fueled by the sustained demand for exceptional 3D graphics and the
scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has leveraged its GPU architecture to
create platforms for scientific computing, artificial intelligence, or AI,
data science, autonomous vehicles, or AV, robotics, metaverse and 3D internet
applications.

The GPU was initially used to simulate human imagination, enabling the virtual
worlds of video games and films. Today, it also simulates human intelligence,
enabling a deeper understanding of the physical world. Its parallel processing
capabilities, supported by thousands of computing cores, are essential to
running deep learning algorithms. This form of AI, in which software writes
itself by learning from large amounts of data, can serve as the brain of
computers, robots and self-driving cars that can perceive and understand the
world. GPU-powered deep learning is being adopted by thousands of enterprises
to deliver services and products that would have been immensely difficult with
traditional coding. Some of the most recent applications of GPU-powered deep
learning include recommendation systems, which are AI algorithms trained to
understand the preferences, previous decisions, and characteristics of people
and products using data gathered about their interactions, large language
models, which can recognize, summarize, translate, predict and generate text
and other content based on knowledge gained from massive datasets, and
generative AI, which uses algorithms that create new content, including audio,
code, images, text, simulations, and videos, based on the data they have been
trained on.

NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, systems, software,
algorithms, libraries, and services to create unique value for the markets we
serve. While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we
address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and
software stacks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to
support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same underlying
technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally
or by third-party developers and partners. The large and growing number of
developers across our platforms strengthens our ecosystem and increases the
value of our platform to our customers.

Innovation is at our core. We have invested over $37 billion in research and
development since our inception, yielding inventions that are essential to
modern computing. Our invention of the GPU in 1999 defined modern computer
graphics and established NVIDIA as the leader in computer graphics. With our
introduction of the CUDA programming model in 2006, we opened the parallel
processing capabilities of our GPU for general purpose computing. This
approach significantly accelerates the most demanding high-performance
computing, or HPC, applications in fields such as aerospace, bio-science
research, mechanical and fluid simulations, and energy exploration. Today, our
GPUs and networking accelerate many of the fastest supercomputers across the
world. In addition, the massively parallel compute architecture of our GPUs
and associated software are well suited for deep learning and machine
learning, powering the era of AI. While traditional CPU-based approaches no
longer deliver advances on the pace described by Moore's Law, NVIDIA
accelerated computing delivers performance improvements on a pace ahead of
Moore's Law, giving the industry a path forward.

Gamers choose NVIDIA GPUs to enjoy immersive, increasingly cinematic virtual
worlds. GPUs also help underpin the world's fastest growing spectator sport,
eSports, which attracts hundreds of millions of viewers to watch top-quality
live video gaming. In addition to serving the growing number of gamers, the
market for gaming GPUs is expanding because of the burgeoning population of
live streamers, broadcasters, artists and creators.

Researchers and developers use our GPUs to accelerate a wide range of
important applications, from simulating molecular dynamics to climate
forecasting. With support for more than 2,800 applications - including 23 of
the top 25 HPC applications - NVIDIA GPUs enable some of the most promising
areas of discovery, from climate prediction to materials science and from wind
tunnel simulation to genomics. Including GPUs and networking, NVIDIA powers
over 70% of the supercomputers on the global TOP500 list, including 23 of the
top 30 systems on the Green500 list.

4

* * *

Table of Contents

The world's leading cloud service providers, or CSPs, and consumer internet
companies use our GPUs and broader data center-scale accelerated computing
platforms to enable, accelerate or enrich the services they deliver to
billions of end-users, including search, recommendations, social networking,
online shopping, live video, translation, AI assistants, navigation, and cloud
computing.

A rapidly growing number of enterprises and startups across a broad range of
industries use our GPUs and software to bring automation to the products and
services they build. The transportation industry is turning to our platforms
for autonomous driving; the healthcare industry is leveraging them for
enhanced medical imaging and acceleration of drug discovery; and the financial
services industry is using them for fraud detection.

Professional designers use our GPUs and software to create visual effects in
movies and to design buildings and products ranging from cell phones to
commercial aircraft.

Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in
California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.

Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement

In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank Group Corp., or SoftBank, announced the
termination of the Share Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired
Arm Limited, or Arm, from SoftBank. The parties agreed to terminate because of
significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the
transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in
fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at
signing.

Our Businesses

We report our business results in two segments.

The Compute & Networking segment includes our Data Center accelerated
computing platform; networking; automotive AI Cockpit, autonomous driving
development agreements, and autonomous vehicle solutions; electric vehicle
computing platforms; Jetson for robotics and other embedded platforms; NVIDIA
AI Enterprise and other software; and cryptocurrency mining processors, or
CMP.

The Graphics segment includes GeForce GPUs for gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW
game streaming service and related infrastructure, and solutions for gaming
platforms; Quadro/NVIDIA RTX GPUs for enterprise workstation graphics; virtual
GPU, or vGPU, software for cloud-based visual and virtual computing;
automotive platforms for infotainment systems; and Omniverse Enterprise
software for building and operating metaverse and 3D internet applications.

Our Markets

We specialize in markets in which our computing platforms can provide
tremendous acceleration for applications. These platforms incorporate
processors, interconnects, software, algorithms, systems, and services to
deliver unique value. Our platforms address four large markets where our
expertise is critical: Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and
Automotive.

Data Center

The NVIDIA computing platform is focused on accelerating the most compute-
intensive workloads, such as AI, data analytics, graphics and scientific
computing, across hyperscale, cloud, enterprise, public sector, and edge data
centers. The platform consists of our energy efficient GPUs, data processing
units, or DPUs, interconnects and systems, our CUDA programming model, and a
growing body of software libraries, software development kits, or SDKs,
application frameworks and services, which are either available as part of the
platform or packaged and sold separately.

For both AI and HPC applications, the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform
greatly increases computer and data center performance and power efficiency
relative to conventional CPU-only approaches. In the field of AI, NVIDIA's
platform accelerates both deep learning and machine learning workloads. Deep
learning is a computer science approach where neural networks are trained to
recognize patterns from massive amounts of data in the form of images, sounds
and text - in some instances better than humans - and in turn provide
predictions in production use cases. Machine learning is a related approach
that leverages algorithms as well

5

* * *

Table of Contents

as data to learn how to make determinations or predictions. HPC, which
includes scientific computing, uses numerical computational approaches to
solve large and complex problems.

We are engaged with thousands of organizations working on AI in a multitude of
industries, from automating tasks such as consumer product and service
recommendations, to chatbots for the automation of or assistance with live
customer interactions, to enabling fraud detection in financial services, to
optimizing oil exploration and drilling. These organizations include the
world's leading consumer internet and cloud services companies, enterprises
and startups seeking to implement AI in transformative ways across multiple
industries. We partner with industry leaders to help transform their
applications or their computing platforms. We also have partnerships in
transportation, retail, healthcare, and manufacturing, among others, to
accelerate the adoption of AI.

At the foundation of the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform are our GPUs,
which excel at parallel workloads such as the training and inferencing of
neural networks. They are available in industry standard servers from every
major computer maker and CSP, as well as in our DGX AI supercomputer, a
purpose-built system for deep learning and GPU accelerated applications. To
facilitate customer adoption, we have also built other ready-to-use system
reference designs around our GPUs, including HGX for hyperscale and
supercomputing data centers, EGX for enterprise and edge computing, IGX for
high-precision edge AI, and AGX for autonomous machines.

In fiscal year 2023, we introduced the Hopper architecture of data center
GPUs, and started shipping the first Hopper-based GPU - the flagship H100.
Hopper includes a Transformer Engine, designed to accelerate the training of
AI transformer models by an order of magnitude over the prior generation. H100
is ideal for accelerating applications such as large language models, deep
recommender systems, genomics and complex digital twins.

NVIDIA will offer enterprise customers NVIDIA AI cloud services directly and
through our network of partners. Examples of these services include NVIDIA DGX
Cloud, which is cloud-based infrastructure and software for training AI
models, and customizable pretrained AI models. NVIDIA has partnered with
leading cloud service providers to host these services in their data centers.

Our networking solutions include InfiniBand and Ethernet network adapters and
switches, related software, and cables. This has enabled us to architect end-
to-end data center-scale computing platforms that can interconnect thousands
of compute nodes with high-performance networking. While historically the
server was the unit of computing, as AI and HPC workloads have become
extremely large spanning thousands of compute nodes, the data center has
become the new unit of computing, with networking as an integral part.

Beyond GPUs, NVIDIA has expanded its data center processor portfolio to
include DPUs, currently shipping in the market, and CPUs with samples planned
to ship in the first half of fiscal year 2024. The NVIDIA Bluefield DPU is
supported by foundational data-center-infrastructure-on-a-chip software, or
DOCA, that lets developers build software-defined, hardware-accelerated
networking, security, storage and management applications for BlueField DPUs.
Partners supporting Bluefield include many of the top security, storage and
networking companies. We can optimize across the entire computing, networking
and storage stack to deliver data center-scale computing solutions. The Grace
CPU is designed for AI infrastructure and high-performance computing,
providing the highest performance and twice the memory bandwidth and energy-
efficiency compared to today's leading server chips.

While our approach starts with powerful chips, what makes it a full-stack
computing platform is our large body of software, including the CUDA parallel
programming model, the CUDA-X collection of application acceleration
libraries, Application Programming Interfaces, or APIs, SDKs and tools, and
domain-specific application frameworks. We also offer the NVIDIA GPU Cloud
registry, or NGC, a comprehensive catalog of easy-to-use, optimized software
stacks across a range of domains including scientific computing, deep
learning, and machine learning. With NGC, AI developers, researchers and data
scientists can get started with the development of AI and HPC applications and
deploy them on DGX systems, NVIDIA-Certified systems from our partners, or
with NVIDIA's cloud partners.

In addition to software that is delivered to customers as an integral part of
our data center computing platform, we offer paid licenses to NVIDIA AI
Enterprise, a comprehensive suite of enterprise-grade AI software; and NVIDIA
vGPU software for graphics-rich virtual desktops and workstations.

  

6

* * *

Table of Contents

Gaming

Gaming is the largest entertainment industry, with PC gaming as the
predominant platform. Many factors propel computer gaming's growth, including
new high production value games and franchises, the continued rise of
competitive gaming or eSports, social connectivity and the increasing
popularity of game streamers, modders, or gamers who create game
modifications, and creators.

Our gaming platforms leverage our GPUs and sophisticated software to enhance
the gaming experience with smoother, higher quality graphics. We developed
NVIDIA RTX to bring next generation graphics and AI to games. NVIDIA RTX
features ray tracing technology for real-time, cinematic-quality rendering.
Ray tracing, which has long been used for special effects in the movie
industry, is a computationally intensive technique that simulates the physical
behavior of light to achieve greater realism in computer-generated scenes.
NVIDIA RTX also features deep learning super sampling, or NVIDIA DLSS, our AI
technology that boosts frame rates while generating beautiful, sharp images
for games.

Our products for the gaming market include GeForce RTX and GeForce GTX GPUs
for gaming desktop and laptop PCs, GeForce NOW cloud gaming for playing PC
games on underpowered devices, SHIELD for high quality streaming on TV, as
well as system-on-chips (SOCs) and development services for game consoles.

In fiscal year 2023, we introduced the GeForce RTX 40 Series of gaming GPUs,
based on the Ada Lovelace architecture. The 40 Series features our third
generation RTX technology, third generation NVIDIA DLSS, and fourth generation
Tensor Cores to deliver up to 4X the performance of the previous generation.

Professional Visualization

We serve the Professional Visualization market by working closely with
independent software vendors, or ISVs, to optimize their offerings for NVIDIA
GPUs. Our GPU computing platform enhances productivity and introduces new
capabilities for critical workflows in many fields, such as design and
manufacturing and digital content creation. Design and manufacturing encompass
computer-aided design, architectural design, consumer-products manufacturing,
medical instrumentation, and aerospace. Digital content creation includes
professional video editing and post-production, special effects for films, and
broadcast-television graphics.

The NVIDIA RTX platform makes it possible to render film-quality,
photorealistic objects and environments with physically accurate shadows,
reflections and refractions using ray tracing in real-time. Many leading 3D
design and content creation applications developed by our ecosystem partners
now support RTX, allowing professionals to accelerate and transform their
workflows with NVIDIA RTX GPUs and software.

Digital images used in product design need to mirror reality. This requires
simulating the physical behavior of light and materials, or physically-based
rendering. NVIDIA Omniverse is a virtual world simulation and collaboration
platform for 3D workflows, such as building and operating metaverse and 3D
internet applications, available as a software subscription for enterprise use
and free for individual use. Omniverse, virtual reality, or VR, and augmented
reality, or AR, are being incorporated in a growing number of enterprise
applications. Virtual car showrooms, surgical training, architectural
walkthroughs, and bringing historical scenes to life all deploy these
technologies, powered by our GPUs.

Automotive

NVIDIA's Automotive market is comprised of AV, AI cockpit, electric vehicle
computing platforms, and infotainment platform solutions. Leveraging our
technology leadership in AI and building on our long-standing automotive
relationships, we are delivering a complete end-to-end solution for the AV
market under the DRIVE Hyperion brand. NVIDIA has demonstrated multiple
applications of AI within the car: AI can drive the car itself as a pilot in
fully autonomous mode or it can also be a co-pilot, assisting the human driver
while creating a safer driving experience.

NVIDIA is working with several hundred partners in the automotive ecosystem
including automakers, truck makers, tier-one suppliers, sensor manufacturers,
automotive research institutions, HD mapping companies, and startups to
develop and deploy AI systems for self-driving vehicles. Our unified AI
computing architecture starts with training deep neural networks using our
GPUs, and then running a full perception, fusion, planning and control stack
within the vehicle on the NVIDIA DRIVE Hyperion platform. The DRIVE Hyperion
platform consists of the high-performance, energy efficient DRIVE AGX
computing hardware, a reference sensor set that supports full self-driving
capability as well as an open, modular DRIVE Software

7

* * *

Table of Contents

platform. The DRIVE Software platform includes DRIVE Chauffeur for autonomous
driving, mapping and parking services, Drive Concierge for intelligent in-
vehicle experiences, and real time conversational AI capability based on
NVIDIA Omniverse Avatar software.

In addition, we offer a scalable data center-based simulation solution, NVIDIA
DRIVE Sim, based on NVIDIA Omniverse software, for digital cockpit
development, as well as for testing and validating a self-driving platform.
NVIDIA's unique end-to-end, software-defined approach is designed for
continuous innovation and continuous development, enabling cars to receive
over-the-air updates to add new features and capabilities throughout the life
of a vehicle.

Business Strategies

NVIDIA's key strategies that shape our overall business approach include:

Advancing the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform. NVIDIA's accelerated
computing platform can solve complex problems in significantly less time and
with lower power consumption than alternative computational approaches.
Indeed, it can help solve problems that were previously deemed unsolvable. We
work to deliver continued performance leaps that outpace Moore's Law by
leveraging innovation across the architecture, chip design, system,
interconnect, and software layers. This full-stack innovation approach allows
us to deliver order-of-magnitude performance advantages relative to legacy
approaches in our target markets, which include Data Center, Gaming,
Professional Visualization, and Automotive. While the computing requirements
of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying
architecture leveraging our GPUs, CUDA and networking technologies as the
fundamental building blocks. The programmable nature of our architecture
allows us to make leveraged investments in research and development: we can
support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with shared underlying
technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally
or by third-party developers and partners. We utilize this platform approach
in each of our target markets.

Extending our technology and platform leadership in AI. We provide a complete,
end-to-end accelerated computing platform for deep learning and machine
learning, addressing both training and inferencing. This includes GPUs,
interconnects, systems, our CUDA programming language, algorithms, libraries,
and other software. GPUs are uniquely suited to AI, and we will continue to
add AI-specific features to our GPU architecture to further extend our
leadership position. Our AI technology leadership is reinforced by our large
and expanding ecosystem in a virtuous cycle. Our GPU platforms are available
from virtually every major server maker and CSP, as well as on our own AI
supercomputer. There are 3.8 million developers worldwide using CUDA and our
other software tools to help deploy our technology in our target markets. We
evangelize AI through partnerships with hundreds of universities and over
13,000 startups through our Inception program. Additionally, our Deep Learning
Institute provides instruction on the latest techniques on how to design,
train, and deploy neural networks in applications using our accelerated
computing platform.

Extending our technology and platform leadership in computer graphics. We
believe that computer graphics is fundamental to the continued expansion and
evolution of computing. We apply our research and development resources to
enhance the user experience for consumer entertainment and professional
visualization applications, and create new virtual world and simulation
capabilities. Our technologies are instrumental in driving gaming forward, as
developers leverage our libraries and algorithms to deliver an optimized
gaming experience on our GeForce platform. Our computer graphics platforms
leverage not only our industry-leading GeForce and NVIDIA RTX GPUs, but also
optimized software stacks. For example, GeForce Experience enhances each
gamer's experience by optimizing their PC's settings, as well as enabling the
recording and sharing of gameplay. Our Studio drivers enhance and accelerate a
number of popular creative applications. Omniverse is real-time 3D design
collaboration and virtual world simulation software that empowers artists,
designers and creators to connect and collaborate in leading design
applications. We also enable interactive graphics applications - such as
games, movie and photo editing and design software - to be accessed by almost
any device, almost anywhere, through our cloud platforms such as vGPU for
enterprise and GeForce NOW for gaming.

Advancing the leading autonomous vehicle platform. We believe the advent of AV
will soon revolutionize the transportation industry. In our view, AI is the
key technology enabler of this opportunity, as the algorithms required for
autonomous driving - such as perception, localization, and planning - are too
complex for legacy hand-coded approaches and will use multiple trained neural
networks instead. Therefore, we provide a full functionally safe AI-based
hardware and software solution for the AV market under the DRIVE brand, which
we are bringing to market through our partnerships with automotive original
equipment manufacturers, or

8

* * *

Table of Contents

OEMs, tier-1 suppliers, and start-ups. Our AV solution also includes the GPU-
based hardware required to train the neural networks before their in-vehicle
deployment, as well as to re-simulate their operation prior to any over-the-
air software updates. We believe our comprehensive, top-to-bottom and end-to-
end approach will enable the transportation industry to solve the complex
problems arising from the shift to autonomous driving.

Leveraging our intellectual property, or IP. We believe our IP is a valuable
asset that can be accessed by our customers and partners through license and
development agreements when they desire to build such capabilities directly
into their own products, or have us do so through a custom development. Such
license and development arrangements can further enhance the reach of our
technology.

Sales and Marketing

Our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is key to achieving our objective
of providing markets with our high-performance and efficient computing
platforms and software. Our sales and marketing teams, located across our
global markets, work closely with end customers and various industry
ecosystems through our partner network. Our partner network incorporates each
industry's respective OEMs, original device manufacturers, or ODMs, system
builders, add-in board manufacturers, or AIBs, retailers/distributors, ISVs,
internet and CSPs, automotive manufacturers and tier-1 automotive suppliers,
mapping companies, start-ups, and other ecosystem participants.

Members of our sales team have technical expertise and product and industry
knowledge. We also employ a team of application engineers and solution
architects to assist our partner network in designing, testing, and qualifying
system designs that incorporate our platforms. We believe that the depth and
quality of our design support are key to improving our partner network's time-
to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction, and fostering
relationships that encourage our end customers and partner network to use the
next generation of our products within each platform.

To encourage the development of applications optimized for our platforms and
software, we seek to establish and maintain strong relationships in the
software development community. Engineering and marketing personnel engage
with key software developers to promote and discuss our platforms, as well as
to ascertain individual product requirements and solve technical problems. Our
developer program makes our products available to developers prior to launch
in order to encourage the development of AI frameworks, SDKs, and APIs for
software applications and game titles that are optimized for our platforms.
Our Deep Learning Institute provides in-person and online training for
developers in industries and organizations around the world to build AI and
accelerated computing applications that leverage our platforms.

As NVIDIA's business has evolved from a focus primarily on gaming products to
broader markets, and from chips to platforms, systems and software, so, too,
have our avenues to market. Thus, in addition to sales to customers in our
partner network, certain of our products are also sold direct to CSPs,
enterprise customers, retail channels and consumers.

Seasonality

Our computing platforms serve a diverse set of markets such as consumer
gaming, enterprise and cloud data centers, professional workstations, and
automotive. Our consumer products typically see stronger revenue in the second
half of our fiscal year. In addition, based on the production schedules of key
customers, some of our products for notebooks and game consoles typically
generate stronger revenue in the second and third quarters, and weaker revenue
in the fourth and first quarters. In fiscal year 2023, our supply exceeded our
demand in several areas, and our revenue did not follow historical seasonal
patterns. Historical seasonality trends may not repeat.

Manufacturing

We do not manufacture semiconductors used for our products. Instead, we
utilize a fabless manufacturing strategy, whereby we employ key suppliers for
all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication,
assembly, testing, and packaging. This strategy uses the expertise of
industry-leading suppliers that are certified by the International
Organization for Standardization in such areas as fabrication, assembly,
quality control and assurance, reliability, and testing. Additionally, we can
avoid many of the significant costs and risks associated with owning and
operating manufacturing operations. While we may directly procure certain raw
materials used in the production of our products, such as memory, substrates
and a variety of components, our suppliers are responsible for procurement of
most of the raw materials used in the

9

* * *

Table of Contents

production of our products. As a result, we can focus our resources on product
design, additional quality assurance, marketing, and customer support. We have
placed non-cancellable inventory orders for certain product components in
advance of our historical lead times, paid premiums and provided deposits to
secure future supply and capacity and may need to continue to do so in the
future.

  

We have expanded our supplier relationships to build redundancy and resilience
in our operations. We utilize suppliers, such as Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Company Limited and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd, to produce our
semiconductor wafers. We then utilize independent subcontractors and contract
manufacturers, such as Amkor Technology, BYD Auto Co. Ltd., or BYD Auto, Hon
Hai Precision Industry Co., or Hon Hai, King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd., Omni
Logistics, LLC, Siliconware Precision Industries Company Ltd., and Wistron
Corporation to perform assembly, testing, and packaging of most of our
products and platforms. We use contract manufacturers such as Flex Ltd., Jabil
Inc., and Universal Scientific Industrial Co., Ltd., to manufacture our
standard and custom adapter card products and switch systems, and Fabrinet to
manufacture our networking cables. We purchase substrates from Ibiden Co.
Ltd., Kinsus Interconnect Technology Corporation, and Unimicron Technology
Corporation, and memory from Micron Technology, Samsung Semiconductor, Inc.,
or Samsung, and SK Hynix. We often consign key components or materials such as
the GPU, SoC, memory, and integrated circuit to the contract manufacturers.

We typically receive semiconductor products from our subcontractors, perform
incoming quality assurance and configuration using test equipment purchased
from industry-leading suppliers such as Advantest America Inc. and Chroma ATE
Inc., and then ship the semiconductors to contract manufacturers, such as BYD
Auto and Hon Hai, distributors, motherboard and add-in card, or AIC, customers
from our third-party warehouses in Hong Kong, Israel, and the United States.
Generally, these manufacturers assemble and test the boards based on our
design kit and test specifications, and then ship our products to retailers,
system builders, or OEMs as motherboard and AIC solutions.

Competition

The market for our products is intensely competitive and is characterized by
rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. We believe that
the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of
product offerings, access to customers and partners and distribution channels,
software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing
capabilities, processor pricing, and total system costs. We believe that our
ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to
anticipate the features and functions that customers and partners will demand
and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at
acceptable levels of quality and at competitive prices. We expect competition
to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with
products that may be lower priced than ours or may provide better performance
or additional features not provided by our products. In addition, it is
possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and
acquire significant market share.

A significant source of competition comes from companies that provide or
intend to provide GPUs, CPUs, DPUs, embedded SoCs, and other accelerated, AI
computing processor products, and providers of semiconductor-based high-
performance interconnect products based on InfiniBand, Ethernet, Fibre Channel
and proprietary technologies. Some of our competitors may have greater
marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and
may be more able to adapt to customer or technological changes. We expect an
increasingly competitive environment in the future.

Our current competitors include:

•suppliers and licensors of hardware and software for discrete and integrated
GPUs, custom chips and other accelerated computing solutions, including
solutions offered for AI, such as Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., or AMD, and
Intel Corporation, or Intel;

  

•large cloud services companies with internal teams designing chips and
software that incorporate accelerated or AI computing functionality as part of
their internal solutions or platforms, such as Alibaba Group, Alphabet Inc.,
Amazon, Inc., and Baidu, Inc.;

•suppliers of Arm-based CPUs and companies that incorporate CPUs as part of
their internal solutions or platforms;

10

* * *

Table of Contents

•suppliers of SoC products that are used in servers or embedded into
automobiles, autonomous machines, and gaming devices, such as Ambarella, Inc.,
AMD, Broadcom Inc., or Broadcom, Intel, Qualcomm Incorporated, Renesas
Electronics Corporation, and Samsung, or companies with internal teams
designing SoC products for internal use, such as Tesla, Inc.; and

•suppliers of interconnect, switch cable solutions, and DPUs such as AMD,
Applied Optoelectronics, Inc., Arista Networks, Broadcom, Cisco Systems, Inc.,
or Cisco, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Intel, Juniper Networks, Inc.,
Lumentum Holdings, and Marvell Technology Group, as well as internal teams of
system vendors and large cloud services companies.

Patents and Proprietary Rights

We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets,
employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements
to protect our IP in the United States and internationally. Our currently
issued patents have expiration dates from March 2023 to June 2045. We have
numerous patents issued, allowed, and pending in the United States and in
foreign jurisdictions. Our patents and pending patent applications primarily
relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our
products. We also rely on international treaties, organizations, and foreign
laws to protect our IP. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our
products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in
Asia, may not protect our products or IP rights to the same extent as the laws
of the United States. This decreased protection makes the possibility of
piracy of our technology and products more likely. We continuously assess
whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and
technologies based on such factors as:

•the location in which our products are manufactured;

•our strategic technology or product directions in different countries;

•the degree to which IP laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different
jurisdictions; and

•the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations
in particular countries and regions.

We have licensed technology from third parties and expect to continue to enter
into such license agreements.

Government Regulations

Our worldwide business activities are subject to various laws, rules, and
regulations of the United States as well as of foreign governments.

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the U.S. government announced
new license requirements that impact certain exports to China (including Hong
Kong and Macau) and Russia of some of our data center products. The impact of
the new license requirements is difficult to quantify, and it may be
challenging for us to manage our operations and forecast our operating results
due to these requirements. Refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors- Risks Related to
Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters" for a discussion of this
potential impact.

Additionally, our acquisitions may be subject to government regulatory
reviews, and the cost to comply with such regulations or costs incurred where
regulatory challenges prevent the completion of an acquisition could have a
material impact on our business. In February 2022, we announced the
termination of the Share Purchase Agreement by which we would have acquired
Arm due to significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the
transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in
fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at
signing.

Compliance with laws, rules, and regulations has not otherwise had a material
effect upon our capital expenditures, results of operations, or competitive
position and we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for
environmental control facilities. Compliance with existing or future
governmental regulations, including, but not limited to, those pertaining to
IP ownership and infringement, taxes, import and export requirements and
tariffs, anti-corruption, business acquisitions, foreign exchange controls and
cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, competition and
antitrust, advertising, employment, product regulations, cybersecurity,
environmental, health and safety requirements, the responsible use of AI,

11

* * *

Table of Contents

climate change, cryptocurrency, and consumer laws, could increase our costs,
impact our competitive position, and otherwise may have a material adverse
impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations in
subsequent periods. Refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for a discussion of these
potential impacts.

Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance

NVIDIA invents computing technologies that improve lives and address global
challenges. Our goal is to integrate sound environmental, social and corporate
governance, or ESG, principles and practices into every aspect of the Company.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors is
responsible for reviewing and discussing with management our practices related
to ESG. We assess our programs annually in consideration of stakeholder
expectations, market trends, and business risks and opportunities. These
issues are important for our continued business success and reflect the topics
of highest concern to NVIDIA and our stakeholders.

The following section and the Human Capital Management Section below provide
an overview of our principles and practices. More information can be found on
the Corporate Responsibility section of our website and in our annual
Corporate Responsibility Report, or CR Report. Information contained on our
website or in our annual CR Report is not incorporated by reference into this
or any other report we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or
the SEC. Refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for a discussion of risks and
uncertainties we face related to ESG.

Climate Change

In the area of sustainability, we address our climate impacts across our
product lifecycle and assess risks, including current and emerging regulations
and market impacts.

In our CR Report published in July 2022, we published metrics related to our
environmental impact for fiscal year 2022. Fiscal year 2023 metrics are
expected to be published in the first half of fiscal year 2024. There has been
no material impact to our capital expenditures, results of operations or
competitive position associated with global sustainability regulations,
compliance, or costs from sourcing renewable energy. By the end of fiscal year
2025, our goal is to purchase or generate enough renewable energy to match
100% of our global electricity usage for our offices and data centers.

Whether it is creation of technology to power next-generation laptops or
designs to support high-performance supercomputers, improving energy
efficiency is important in our research, development, and design processes.
GPUs are inherently more energy efficient than other forms of computing
because they are optimized for throughput, performance per watt, and certain
AI workloads. The energy efficiency of our products is evidenced by our
continued strong presence on the Green500 list of the most energy-efficient
systems. We powered 23 of the top 30 most energy efficient systems, including
the top supercomputer, on the November 2022 Green500 list.

We plan to build Earth-2, a digital twin of the Earth on NVIDIA AI and NVIDIA
Omniverse platforms. Earth-2 will enable scientists, companies, and policy
makers to do ultra-high-resolution predictions of the impact of climate change
and explore mitigation and adaptation strategies.

Human Capital Management

We believe that our employees are our greatest assets, and they play a key
role in creating long-term value for our stakeholders. As of the end of fiscal
year 2023, we had 26,196 employees in 35 countries, 19,532 were engaged in
research and development and 6,664 were engaged in sales, marketing,
operations, and administrative positions.

To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must
recruit, develop, and retain talented employees, including qualified
executives, scientists, engineers, and technical and non-technical staff.

Recruitment

As the demand for global technical talent continues to be competitive, we have
grown our technical workforce and have been successful in attracting top
talent to NVIDIA. We have attracted strong talent globally with our
differentiated hiring strategies for university, professional, executive and
diverse recruits. The COVID-19 pandemic created expanded hiring opportunities
in new geographies and provided increased

12

* * *

Table of Contents

flexibility for employees to work from locations of their choice. Our
workforce is about 80% technical and about 50% hold advanced degrees.

Earlier in fiscal year 2023, we slowed our hiring to focus on our current
employees and manage costs. We maintain a connection for global talent from
universities through on-campus collaborations with professors and student
organizations, as well as engagement with technical organizations and
participation at industry conferences. Our own employees help to surface top
talent, with over 37% of our new hires in fiscal year 2023 coming from
employee referrals.

Development and Retention

To support employee development, we provide opportunities to learn on-the-job
through training programs, one on one coaching and ongoing feedback. We have a
library of live and on-demand learning experiences that include workshops,
panel discussions, and speaker forums. We curate learning paths focused on our
most common development needs and constantly upgrade our offerings to ensure
that our employees are exposed to the most current programs and technologies
available. We offer tuition reimbursement programs to subsidize educational
programs and advanced certifications. We encourage internal mobility through
career coaching that advises employees on developmental activities and
internal transfer opportunities. We have implemented specifically designed
mentoring and development programs for women and employees from traditionally
underrepresented groups to ensure widespread readiness for future advancement.

To evaluate employee sentiment and engagement, we use pulse surveys, a
suggestion box, and an anonymous third-party platform. Pulse surveys help us
gain insight into employee experience and provide ideas so that we can
prioritize areas to take action. The suggestion box is an always-on,
interactive tool where employees share their thoughts about making our company
a better place to work. The anonymous third-party platform is designed to
protect the identity of the reporter and provide a mechanism for reporters to
follow an investigation and receive responses.

We want NVIDIA to be a place where people can build their careers over their
lifetime. Our employees tend to come and stay. In fiscal year 2023, our
overall turnover rate was 5.3%.

Compensation, Benefits, and Well-Being

Our compensation program rewards performance and is structured to encourage
employees to invest in the Company's future. Employees receive equity, except
where unavailable due to local regulations, that is tied to the value of our
stock price and vests over time to retain employees while simultaneously
aligning their interests with those of our shareholders.

We offer comprehensive benefits to support our employees' and their families'
physical health, well-being and financial health, including 401(k) programs in
the U.S., statutory pension programs outside the U.S., our employee stock
purchase program, flexible work hours and time off, and programs to address
mental health, stress, and time-management challenges. We evaluate our benefit
offerings globally and aim to provide comparable support across the regions
where we operate. We are committed to providing tailored benefits based on
community needs, including assistance for military members, additional mental
health benefits, and support for new birth parents, and those who wish to
become parents.

Diversity and Inclusion

We believe that diverse teams fuel innovation, and we are committed to
creating an inclusive culture that supports all employees.

When recruiting for new talent or managing current talent, we focus on
recruiting, developing, and retaining a more diverse workforce with a focus on
those historically underrepresented in the technology field, including women,
Black/African American, and Hispanic/Latino candidates.

To this end, we have been:

•Partnering with institutions and professional organizations serving
historically underrepresented communities;

•Assigning dedicated recruiting teams to shepherd underrepresented candidates
through the interview process;

13

* * *

Table of Contents

•Embedding inclusion recruiting partners throughout the business to help align
candidates with internal opportunities;

•Supporting the development of women employees through programs aimed at
building a pipeline of future leaders;

•Providing peer support and executive sponsors for nine internal community
resource groups;

•Providing training and education to managers and peers on fostering
supportive environments and recruiting for diversity;

•Ensuring we have and review a diverse pool of candidates for requisitions;
and

•Measuring year over year progress and providing leadership visibility on
diversity efforts.

As of the end of fiscal year 2023, our global workforce was 80% male, 19%
female, and 1% not declared, with 6% of our workforce in the United States
composed of Black or African American and Hispanic or Latino employees.

Health and COVID-19

We supported our people and their families in making their health and safety a
top priority during fiscal year 2023 and throughout the COVID-19 pandemic to
keep our workforce safe.

Hybrid Working Environment

We support a hybrid work environment, understanding that many employees want
the flexibility to work in the office or from home, and make that decision
based on the conditions around them at any point in time.

Steps we took to support employees working from home include:

•Home-focused health and well-being programs;

•Learning and development resources on how to work, lead and manage remotely;
and

•Opportunities for employees to socially connect with one another virtually.

During fiscal year 2024, we will continue a flexible work environment and have
instituted Company-wide "rest days" for employees to recharge.

Information About Our Executive Officers

The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers,
their ages and positions as of February 17, 2023:

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Name| | Age| | Position  
Jen-Hsun Huang| | 60| | President and Chief Executive Officer  
Colette M. Kress| | 55| | Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
Ajay K. Puri| | 68| | Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations  
Debora Shoquist| | 68| | Executive Vice President, Operations  
Timothy S. Teter| | 56| | Executive Vice President and General Counsel  
  
Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in 1993 and has served as our President,
Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since our
inception. From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic Corporation,
a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions including
as Director of Coreware, the business unit responsible for LSI's SOC. From
1983 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a microprocessor designer for AMD, a semiconductor
company. Mr. Huang holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an
M.S.E.E. degree from Stanford University.

Colette M. Kress joined NVIDIA in 2013 as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Kress most recently served as Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Business Technology and
Operations Finance organization at Cisco Systems, Inc., a networking equipment
company, since 2010. At Cisco, Ms. Kress was responsible for financial
strategy, planning, reporting and business

14

* * *

Table of Contents

development for all business segments, engineering and operations. From 1997
to 2010 Ms. Kress held a variety of positions at Microsoft Corporation, or
Microsoft, a software company, including, beginning in 2006, Chief Financial
Officer of the Server and Tools division, where Ms. Kress was responsible for
financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the
division. Prior to joining Microsoft, Ms. Kress spent eight years at Texas
Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of
finance positions. Ms. Kress holds a B.S. degree in Finance from University of
Arizona and an M.B.A. degree from Southern Methodist University.

Ajay K. Puri joined NVIDIA in 2005 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales
and became Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations in 2009. Prior
to NVIDIA, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over
a 22-year career at Sun Microsystems, Inc., a computing systems company. Mr.
Puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development
positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, an information technology company, Booz
Allen Hamilton Inc., a management and technology consulting company, and Texas
Instruments Incorporated. Mr. Puri holds a B.S.E.E. degree from the University
of Minnesota, an M.S.E.E. degree from the California Institute of Technology
and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School.

Debora Shoquist joined NVIDIA in 2007 as Senior Vice President of Operations
and in 2009 became Executive Vice President of Operations. Prior to NVIDIA,
Ms. Shoquist served from 2004 to 2007 as Executive Vice President of
Operations at JDS Uniphase Corp., a provider of communications test and
measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications
industry. She served from 2002 to 2004 as Senior Vice President and General
Manager of the Electro-Optics business at Coherent, Inc., a manufacturer of
commercial and scientific laser equipment. Previously, she worked at Quantum
Corp., a data protection company, as President of the Personal Computer Hard
Disk Drive Division, and at Hewlett-Packard Corp. Ms. Shoquist holds a B.S.
degree in Electrical Engineering from Kansas State University and a B.S.
degree in Biology from Santa Clara University.

Timothy S. Teter joined NVIDIA in 2017 as Senior Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary and became Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary in February 2018. Prior to NVIDIA, Mr. Teter spent more than two
decades at the law firm of Cooley LLP, where he focused on litigating patent
and technology related matters. Prior to attending law school, he worked as an
engineer at Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, an aerospace company. Mr.
Teter holds a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of
California at Davis and a J.D. degree from Stanford Law School.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on or
through our website, http://www.nvidia.com, as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC's website,
http://www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our
web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

In evaluating NVIDIA, the following risk factors should be considered in
addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Purchasing or owning NVIDIA common stock involves investment risks including,
but not limited to, the risks described below. Any one of the following risks
could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or
reputation, which could cause our stock price to decline, and you may lose all
or a part of your investment. Additional risks, trends and uncertainties not
presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also
harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.

Risk Factors Summary

Risks Related to Our Industry and Markets

•Failure to meet the evolving needs of our industry and markets may adversely
impact our financial results.

15

* * *

Table of Contents

•Competition in our current and target markets could cause us to lose market
share and revenue.

Risks Related to Demand, Supply and Manufacturing

•Failure to estimate customer demand properly has led and could lead to
mismatches between supply and demand.

•Dependency on third-party suppliers and their technology reduces our control
over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development,
enhancement, and product delivery schedules and could harm our business.

•Defects in our products have caused and could cause us to incur significant
expenses to remediate and can damage our business.

Risks Related to Our Global Operating Business

•Adverse economic conditions may harm our business.

•International operations are a significant part of our business, and
economic, political, business, and other changes in the regions in which we
operate may expose us to risks that could harm our business.

•Product, system security, and data breaches and cyber-attacks could disrupt
our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, stock price and
reputation.

•Business disruptions could harm our operations and financial results.

•Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business.

•We may not be able to realize the potential benefits of business investments
or acquisitions, nor successfully integrate acquisition targets.

•A significant amount of our revenue stems from a limited number of customers
and could be adversely affected if we lose or are prevented from selling to
any of these customers.

•We may be unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key
employees.

•Modification or interruption of our business processes and information
systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls.

•The COVID-19 pandemic has affected and could continue to have a material
adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

•Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future
fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of
securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline.

Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters

•We are subject to complex laws, rules and regulations, and political and
other actions, which may adversely impact our business.

•Increased scrutiny from shareholders, regulators, and others regarding our
environmental, social and governance responsibilities could result in
financial, reputational and operational harm.

•Issues relating to the responsible use of our technologies, including AI, may
result in reputational and financial harm and liability.

•Adequately protecting our IP rights could be costly, and our ability to
compete could be harmed if we are unsuccessful or if we are prohibited from
making or selling our products.

•We are subject to stringent and changing data privacy and security laws,
rules, regulations, and other obligations. Privacy or security concerns
relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter
customers, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings and liability.

16

* * *

Table of Contents

•Our operating results may be adversely impacted by additional tax
liabilities, higher than expected tax rates and other tax-related factors.

•Our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation,
investigations and regulatory proceedings.

•Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows
from operations and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling
our contractual obligations.

•Delaware law, provisions in our governing documents, and our agreement with
Microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control.

Risk Factors

Risks Related to Our Industry and Markets

Failure to meet the evolving needs of our industry and markets may adversely
impact our financial results.

Our accelerated computing platforms experience rapid changes in technology,
customer requirements, competitive products, and industry standards.

Our success depends on our ability to:

•timely identify industry changes, adapt our strategies, and develop new or
enhance existing products and technologies that meet the evolving needs of
these markets, including due to unexpected changes in industry standards or
disruptive technological innovation that could render our products
incompatible with products developed by other companies;

•develop new products and technologies through investments in research and
development;

•launch new offerings with new business models including standalone software,
cloud solutions, and software-, infrastructure-, or platform-as-a-service
solutions;

•expand the ecosystem for our products and technologies;

•meet evolving and prevailing customer and industry safety and compliance
standards;

•manage product and software lifecycles to maintain customer and end user
satisfaction;

•develop, acquire, and maintain the internal and external infrastructure
needed to scale our business, including our acquisitions integrations,
customer support, e-commerce, IP licensing capabilities and cloud service
capacity; and

•complete technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing investments
for some of the above activities.

We invest in research and development in markets where we have a limited
operating history, which may not produce meaningful revenue for several years,
if at all. If we fail to develop or monetize new products and technologies, or
if they do not become widely adopted, our financial results could be adversely
affected. Obtaining design wins may involve a lengthy process and depend on
our ability to anticipate and provide features and functionality that
customers will demand. They also do not guarantee revenue. Failure to obtain a
design win may prevent us from obtaining future design wins in subsequent
generations. We cannot ensure that the products and technologies we bring to
market will provide value to our customers and partners. If we fail any of
these key success criteria, our financial results may be harmed.

We will offer enterprise customers NVIDIA AI cloud services directly and
through our network of partners. Examples of these services include NVIDIA DGX
Cloud, which is cloud-based infrastructure and software for training AI
models, and customizable pretrained AI models. NVIDIA has partnered with
leading cloud service providers to host these services in their data centers,
and we entered into multi-year cloud service agreements in the second half of
fiscal year 2023 to support these offerings and our research and development
activities. NVIDIA AI cloud services may not be successful and will take time,
resources and investment. We also offer or plan to offer standalone software
solutions for AI including NVIDIA AI Enterprise, NVIDIA Omniverse, NVIDIA
DRIVE for automotive, and several other software solutions. These new

17

* * *

Table of Contents

business models or strategies may not be successful and we may fail to sell
any meaningful standalone software or as-a-service solutions. We may incur
significant costs and may not achieve any significant revenue from these
offerings.

Competition in our current and target markets could cause us to lose market
share and revenue.

Our target markets remain competitive, and competition may intensify with
expanding and changing product and service offerings, industry standards,
customer needs, new entrants and consolidations. Our competitors' products,
services and technologies, including those mentioned above in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, may be cheaper or provide better functionality or
features than ours, which has resulted and may in the future result in lower
than expected selling prices for our products. Some of our competitors operate
their own fabrication facilities, have longer operating histories, larger
customer bases, more comprehensive IP portfolios and patent protections, new
designs and more design wins, and greater financial, sales, marketing and
distribution resources than we do. These competitors may be able to acquire
market share and/or prevent us from doing so, more effectively identify and
capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and end user customer trends,
more quickly transition their products, and secure sufficient foundry capacity
and packaging materials during a supply-constrained environment, which could
harm our business. Some of our customers have in-house expertise and internal
development capabilities similar to some of ours and can use or develop their
own solutions to replace those we are providing. For example, others may offer
cloud-based services that compete with our AI cloud service offerings, and we
may not be able to establish market share sufficient to achieve scale
necessary to meet our business objectives. If we are unable to successfully
compete in this environment, demand for our products, services and
technologies could decrease, which would cause our revenue to decline.

Risks Related to Demand, Supply and Manufacturing

Failure to estimate customer demand properly has led and could lead to
mismatches between supply and demand.

We use third parties to manufacture and assemble our products, and we have had
and may in the future have long manufacturing lead times. We are not provided
guaranteed wafer, component and capacity supply, and our supply deliveries and
production may be non-linear within a quarter or year. If our estimates of
customer demand are ultimately inaccurate, as we have experienced from time to
time, there could be a significant mismatch between supply and demand. This
mismatch has resulted in both product shortages and excess inventory, has
varied across our market platforms, and has significantly harmed our financial
results.

We build finished products and maintain inventory in advance of anticipated
demand. While we have in the past entered and may in the future enter into
long-term supply and capacity commitments, we may not be able to secure
sufficient commitments for capacity to address our business needs or our long-
term demand expectations may change. Additionally, our ability to sell certain
products has been and could be impeded if components from third parties that
are necessary for the finished product are not available. In periods of
shortages impacting the semiconductor industry and/or limited supply or
capacity in our supply chain, the lead times on our orders may be extended. We
have previously experienced extended lead times of more than 12 months. We
have paid premiums and provided deposits to secure future supply and capacity,
which have increased our product costs and may continue to do so. We may not
have the ability to reduce our supply commitments at the same rate or at all
if our revenue declines.

Demand for our products is based on many factors in addition to the lead times
described above that have caused and/or could in the future cause us to either
underestimate or overestimate our customers' future demand for our products,
or otherwise cause a mismatch between supply and demand for our products and
impact the timing and volume of our revenue, including:

•competing technologies and competitor product releases and announcements;

•changes in business and economic conditions resulting in decreased end
demand;

•sudden or sustained government lockdowns or actions to control case spread of
COVID-19 or other global or local health issues;

•rapidly changing technology or customer requirements;

•time to market;

18

* * *

Table of Contents

•new product introductions and transitions resulting in less demand for
existing products;

•new or unexpected end use cases;

•increase in demand for competitive products, including competitive actions;

•business decisions made by third parties;

•the demand for accelerated or AI-related cloud services, including our own
software and AI cloud service offerings;

•the demand for cryptocurrency mining; or

•government actions or changes in governmental policies, such as increased
restrictions on gaming usage.

Our supply, which includes inventory on hand, purchase obligations and prepaid
supply agreements, has grown significantly due to current supply chain
conditions, complexity of our products, and recent reductions in demand. At
the end of fiscal year 2023, purchase obligations and prepaid supply
agreements represented more than half of our total supply. We may incur
inventory provisions if our inventory or supply commitments are misaligned
with demand for our products.

Our demand predictions may not be correct, as we have experienced from time to
time. Product transitions are complex and frequently negatively impact our
revenue as we often ship both new and legacy architecture products
simultaneously and we and our channel partners prepare to ship and support new
products. Our architecture transitions of Data Center, Professional
Visualization, and Gaming products may impair our ability to predict demand
and impact our supply mix. Qualification time for new products, customers
anticipating product transitions and channel partners reducing channel
inventory of legacy architectures ahead of new product introductions can
create reductions or volatility in our revenue. We have experienced and may in
the future experience reduced demand for current generation architectures when
customers anticipate transitions, and we may be unable to sell multiple
product architectures at the same time for current and future architecture
transitions. While we have managed prior product transitions and have
previously sold multiple product architectures at the same time, these
transitions are difficult and prior trends may not continue. If we are unable
to execute our architectural transitions as planned for any reason, our
financial results may be negatively impacted.

We sell most of our products through channel partners, who sell to
distributors, retailers, and/or end customers. As a result, the decisions made
by our channel partners, distributors, retailers, and in response to changing
market conditions and changes in end user demand for our products have
impacted and could in the future continue to impact our ability to properly
forecast demand, particularly as they are based on estimates provided by
various downstream parties.

If we underestimate our customers' future demand for our products, our foundry
partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production
and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill orders on a
timely basis. Even if we are able to increase production levels to meet
customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely
manner, or our contract manufacturers may experience supply constraints. If we
fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, our
customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and market
share and our reputation could be harmed.

If we overestimate our customers' future demand for our products, or if
customers cancel or defer orders or choose to purchase from our competitors,
we may not be able to reduce our inventory or other contractual purchase
commitments. In the past, we have experienced a reduction in average selling
prices, including due to channel pricing programs that we have implemented and
may continue to implement, as a result of our overestimation of future demand,
and we may need to continue these reductions. We have had to increase prices
for certain of our products as a result of our suppliers' increase in prices,
and we may need to continue to do so for other products in the future. We have
also written-down our inventory, incurred cancellation penalties, and recorded
impairments. These impacts were amplified by our placement of non-cancellable
and non-returnable purchasing terms, well in advance of our historical lead
times and could be exacerbated if we need to make changes to the design of
future products. The risk of these impacts has increased as our purchase
obligations and prepaids have grown and become a greater portion of our total
supply while our

19

* * *

Table of Contents

revenue has sequentially declined. All of these factors may negatively impact
our gross margins and financial results.

We build technology and products for use cases and applications that may be
new or may not yet exist. Examples include our Omniverse platform and third-
party large language models and generative models. Our demand estimates for
these use cases and applications can be incorrect and create volatility in our
revenue or supply levels, and we may not be able to generate any revenue from
these use cases and applications.

Challenges in estimating demand could become more pronounced or volatile in
the future on both a global and regional basis. Extended lead times may occur
if we experience other supply constraints caused by natural disasters,
pandemics or other events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition,
geopolitical tensions, such as those involving Taiwan and China, which
comprise a significant portion of our revenue and where we have suppliers,
contract manufacturers, and assembly partners who are critical to our supply
continuity, could have a material adverse impact on us.

The use of our GPUs for other than that for which they were designed and
marketed, including new and unexpected use cases, has impacted and can in the
future impact demand for our products, including by leading to inconsistent
spikes and drops in demand. For example, a number of years ago, our Gaming
GPUs began to be used for digital currency mining, including blockchain-based
platforms such as Ethereum. It is difficult for us to estimate with any
reasonable degree of precision, the past or current impact of cryptocurrency
mining, or forecast the future impact of cryptocurrency mining, on demand for
our products. Volatility in the cryptocurrency market, including new compute
technologies, price changes in cryptocurrencies, government cryptocurrency
policies and regulations, new cryptocurrency standards, and changes in the
method of verifying blockchain transactions, has impacted and can in the
future impact cryptocurrency mining and demand for our products and can
further impact our ability to estimate demand for our products. Changes to
cryptocurrency standards and processes including, but not limited to, the
recently implemented Ethereum 2.0 merge may decrease the usage of GPUs for
Ethereum mining as well as create increased aftermarket sales of our GPUs,
which could negatively impact retail prices for our GPUs and reduce demand for
our new GPUs. We previously introduced Lite Hash Rate, or LHR, GeForce GPUs
with limited Ethereum mining capability and provided CMP products in an effort
to address demand from gamers and direct miners to CMP. With the Ethereum 2.0
merge, NVIDIA Ampere and Ada Lovelace architectures no longer include LHR. In
addition, our new products or previously sold products may be resold online or
on the unauthorized "gray market," which also makes demand forecasting
difficult. Gray market products and reseller marketplaces compete with our new
products and distribution channels.

Additionally, we depend on developers and other third parties to build
accelerated computing applications that leverage our platforms. We also rely
on third-party content providers and publishers to make their content
available on our platforms such as GeForce NOW. Failure by developers to build
applications that leverage our platforms, or failure by third-party content
providers or publishers to make their content available on reasonable terms or
at all for use by our customers or end users on our platforms, could adversely
affect customer demand.

Dependency on third-party suppliers and their technology to manufacture,
assemble, test, package or design our products reduces our control over
product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development, enhancement
and product delivery schedules and could harm our business.

We depend on foundries to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their
fabrication equipment and techniques. We do not assemble, test or package our
products, but instead contract with independent subcontractors. We also rely
on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design,
simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. The
design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for greater
functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available
software development tools. We face several risks which have adversely
affected or could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand and
scale our supply chain, negatively impact longer-term demand for our products
and services, and adversely affect our business operations, gross margin,
revenue and/or financial results, including:

•lack of guaranteed supply of wafer, component and capacity or decommitment
and potential higher wafer and component prices, from incorrectly estimating
demand and failing to place orders with our suppliers with sufficient
quantities or in a timely manner;

20

* * *

Table of Contents

•failure by our foundries or contract manufacturers to procure raw materials
or to provide adequate levels of manufacturing or test capacity for our
products;

•failure by our foundries to develop, obtain or successfully implement high
quality process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry
process technologies such as advanced process node technologies and memory
designs needed to manufacture our products;

•limited number and geographic concentration of global suppliers, foundries,
contract manufacturers, assembly and test providers, and memory manufacturers;

•loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a
result of qualifying a new foundry or subcontractor and commencing volume
production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change
a supplier;

•lack of direct control over product quantity, quality and delivery schedules;

•suppliers or their suppliers failing to supply high quality products and/or
making changes to their products without our qualification;

•delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or
higher expenses in the event our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our
competitors' or other customers' orders over ours;

•requirements to place orders that are not cancellable upon changes in demand
or requirements to prepay for supply in advance;

•low manufacturing yields resulting from a failure in our product design or a
foundry's proprietary process technology; and

•disruptions in manufacturing, assembly and other processes due to closures
related to heat waves or other natural disasters and electricity conservation
efforts.

Defects in our products have caused and could cause us to incur significant
expenses to remediate, which can damage our reputation and cause us to lose
market share.

Our hardware and software product offerings are complex and they have in the
past and may in the future contain defects or security vulnerabilities, or
experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues
in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. These
risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, markets,
technologies and applications or as new versions are released. These risks
further increase when we rely on partners to supply and manufacture components
that are used in our products, as these arrangements reduce our direct control
over production. Although arrangements with component providers may contain
provisions for product defect expense reimbursement, we generally remain
responsible to the customer for warranty product defects that may occur from
time to time. Some failures in our products or services have been in the past
and may in the future be only discovered after a product or service has been
shipped or used. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products or services
could result in loss of data or intangible property, or expose our end
customers to unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy malicious
software programs that could attack our products or services. Defects or
failure of our products to perform to specifications could lead to substantial
damage to the products or the product in which our device has been integrated
by OEMs, ODMs, AIBs and automotive manufacturers and tier 1 automotive
suppliers, and to the user of such end product. Any such defect may cause us
to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs as part
of a product recall or otherwise, write-off the value of related inventory,
and divert the attention of our engineering and management personnel from our
product development efforts to find and correct the issue. Our efforts to
remedy these issues may not be timely or satisfactory to our customers. An
error or defect in new products, releases, or related software drivers after
commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market
acceptance, loss of design wins, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a
product or market, and harm to our relationships with existing and prospective
customers and partners and consumers' perceptions of our brand, which would in
turn negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or
financial results. We may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or
consumers, including for costs to repair or replace products in the field or
in connection with indemnification obligations, or pay fines imposed by
regulatory agencies.

21

* * *

Table of Contents

For example, a defect was identified in a third-party component embedded in
certain Data Center products. This defect has had, and other defects may in
the future have, an adverse effect on our cost and supply of components and
finished goods. These costs could be significant in future periods. We
recorded a net warranty liability during fiscal year 2023 primarily in
connection with this defect. While we believe we have accurately recorded for
warranty obligations, we may need to record additional amounts in the future
if our estimate proves to be incorrect. In general, if a product liability
claim regarding any of our products is brought against us, even if the alleged
damage is due to the actions or inactions of a third party, such as within our
supply chain, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would
divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and harm our
business. Further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or
future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely
impact our financial results.

Risks Related to Our Global Operating Business

Adverse economic conditions may harm our business.

Economic and industry uncertainty or changes, including recession or slowing
growth, inflation, changes or uncertainty in fiscal, monetary, or trade
policy, disruptions to capital markets, currency fluctuations, higher interest
rates, tighter credit, lower capital expenditures by businesses, including on
IT infrastructure, increases in unemployment, labor shortages, and lower
consumer confidence and spending, have in the past and/or could in the future
have adverse, wide-ranging effects on our business and financial results,
including:

•increased costs for wafers, components, logistics, and other supply chain
expenses, which have negatively impacted our gross margin and may continue to
do so;

•increased supply, employee, facilities and infrastructure costs and
volatility in the financial markets, which have reduced and may in the future
reduce our margins;

•decrease in demand for our products, services and technologies and those of
our customers, partners or licensees;

•the inability of our suppliers to deliver on their supply commitments to us
and our customers' or our licensees' inability to supply products to customers
and/or end users;

•limits on our ability to forecast operating results and make business
decisions;

•the insolvency of key suppliers, distributors, customers or licensing
parties; reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back
operations, exit businesses, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially
cease operations; lead to mergers, consolidations or strategic alliances among
other companies, which could adversely affect our ability to compete
effectively; and

•increased credit and collectability risks, higher borrowing costs or reduced
availability of capital markets, reduced liquidity, adverse impacts on our
suppliers, failures of counterparties including financial institutions and
insurers, asset impairments, and declines in the value of our financial
instruments.

International operations are a significant part of our business, which exposes
us to us to risks that could harm our business.

We conduct our business and have offices worldwide. Our semiconductor wafers
are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located
outside of the United States, and we generated 69% of our revenue during
fiscal year 2023 from sales outside of the United States. The global nature of
our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, which have
had in the past and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations, including domestic
and international economic and political conditions between countries in which
we and our suppliers and manufacturers do business, government lockdowns to
control case spread of COVID-19 or other global or local health issues,
differing legal standards with respect to protection of IP and employment
practices, domestic and international business and cultural practices that
differ, disruptions to capital markets, counter-inflation policies, and/or
currency fluctuations, and natural disasters, acts of war or other military
actions, terrorism, public health issues, and other catastrophic events.

22

* * *

Table of Contents

Product, system security, and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-
attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue and
increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage
our reputation.

Security breaches, computer malware, social-engineering attacks, denial-of-
service attacks, software bugs, server malfunctions, software or hardware
failures, loss of data or other information technology assets, and other
cyber-attacks are increasingly sophisticated, making it more difficult to
successfully detect, defend against them or implement adequate preventative
measures.

Cyber-attacks, including ransomware attacks by organized criminal threat
actors, nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors, may become more
prevalent and severe. Our ability to recover from ransomware attacks may be
limited if our backups have been affected by the attack, or if restoring from
backups is delayed or not feasible.

Threat actors, sophisticated nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors
now engage and are expected to continue to engage in cyber-attacks. Due to
increasing geopolitical conflicts and during times of war or other major
conflicts, we and the third parties upon which we rely may be vulnerable to a
heightened risk of cyber-attacks that could materially disrupt our ability to
provide services and products. Furthermore, we rely on products and services
provided by third-party suppliers to operate certain critical business
systems, including without limitation, cloud-based infrastructure, encryption
and authentication technology, employee email, and other functions, which
exposes us to supply-chain attacks or other business disruptions. We cannot
guarantee that third parties and infrastructure in our supply chain or our
partners' supply chains have not been compromised or that they do not contain
exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or disruption to
our information technology systems, including our products and services, or
the third-party information technology systems that support our services. Our
ability to monitor these third parties' information security practices is
limited, and these may not have adequate information security measures in
place. In addition, if one of our third-party suppliers suffers a security
breach, our response may be limited or more difficult because we may not have
direct access to their systems, logs and other information related to the
security breach. Additionally, we are incorporated into the supply chain of a
large number of entities worldwide and, as a result, if our products or
services are compromised, a significant number of our customers and their data
could be affected, which could result in potential liability and harm our
business.

To defend against cyber-attacks, we must continuously engineer more secure
products and enhance security and reliability features, which is expected to
result in increased expenses. We must also continue to develop our security
measures, ensure our suppliers have appropriate security measures in place,
and continue to meet the evolving security requirements of our customers,
applicable industry standards, and government regulations. While we take steps
to detect and remediate certain vulnerabilities that we have identified, we
may not always be able to detect all vulnerabilities in our security controls,
systems or software, including third-party software we have installed, as such
threats and techniques change frequently and may not be detected until after a
security incident has occurred. Further, we may experience delays in
developing and deploying remedial measures designed to address identified
vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities could result in reputational and
financial harm.

We hold confidential and proprietary information, including information from
partners and customers. Breaches of our security measures, along with reported
or perceived vulnerabilities or unapproved dissemination of proprietary
information or sensitive or confidential data about us or third parties could
expose us and the parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this
information, potentially resulting in litigation and subsequent liability,
regulatory inquiries or actions, damage to our brand and reputation or other
harm, including financial, to our business. For example, we hold propriety
game source code from third-party partners in our GFN service. Breaches of our
GFN security measures, which have happened in the past, could expose our
partners to a risk of loss or misuse of this source code, damage both us and
our partners, and expose NVIDIA to potential litigation and liability. If we
or a third party we rely on experience a security incident, which has occurred
in the past, or are perceived to have experienced a security incident, we may
experience adverse consequences, including government enforcement actions,
additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, restrictions on processing
data, litigation, indemnification obligations, reputational harm, diversion of
funds, financial loss, loss of data, material disruptions in our systems and
operations, supply chain, and ability to produce, sell and distribute our
goods and services, and other similar harms. Inability to fulfill orders,
delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these
disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and
reputation.

23

* * *

Table of Contents

Business disruptions could harm our operations, lead to a decline in revenue
and increase our costs.

Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by natural disasters and extreme
weather conditions, power or water shortages, telecommunications failures,
cloud service provider outages, terrorist attacks, or acts of violence,
political and/or civil unrest, acts of war or other military actions,
epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters and
catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters, a large portion of our
current data center capacity, and a portion of our research and development
activities are located in California, and other critical business operations,
finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in Asia,
making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters such as earthquakes,
wildfires, or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical
areas. Catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who
provide us critical infrastructure services for IT and research and
development systems and personnel. Geopolitical and domestic political
developments and other events beyond our control, can increase economic
volatility globally. Political instability, changes in government or adverse
political developments in or around any of the major countries in which we do
business would also likely harm our business, financial condition and results
of operations. Worldwide geopolitical tensions and conflicts, including but
not limited to China, Hong Kong, Israel, Korea and Taiwan where the
manufacture of our product components and final assembly of our products are
concentrated may result in changing regulatory requirements, and other
disruptions that could impact our operations and operating strategies, product
demand, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. For example,
other countries have restricted and may continue in the future to restrict
business with the State of Israel, where we have engineering, sales support
operations and manufacturing, and companies with Israeli operations, including
by economic boycotts. Our operations could be harmed and our costs could
increase if manufacturing, logistics or other operations are disrupted for any
reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages,
information technology system failures, military actions or economic,
business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues. The
ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers of being
located and consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. In the
event a disaster, war or catastrophic event affects us, the third-party
systems on which we rely, or our customers, our business could be harmed as a
result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, and substantial
expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations. All of these risks and
conditions could materially adversely affect our future sales and operating
results.

Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business.

Climate change may have an increasingly adverse impact on our business and
those of our customers, partners and vendors. Water and energy availability
and reliability in the communities where we conduct business is critical, and
certain of our facilities may be vulnerable to the impacts of extreme weather
events. Extreme heat and wind coupled with dry conditions in Northern
California may lead to power safety shut offs due to wildfire risk, which can
have adverse implications for our Santa Clara, California headquarter offices
and data centers, including impairing the ability of our employees to work
effectively. Climate change, its impact on our supply chain and critical
infrastructure worldwide, and its potential to increase political instability
in regions where we, our customers, partners and our vendors do business, may
disrupt our business and cause us to experience higher attrition, losses and
costs to maintain or resume operations. Although we maintain insurance
coverage for a variety of property, casualty, and other risks, the types and
amounts of insurance we obtain vary depending on availability and cost. Some
of our policies have large deductibles and broad exclusions, and our insurance
providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. Losses not covered by
insurance may be large, which could harm our results of operations and
financial condition.

Our business and those of our suppliers and customers, may also be subject to
climate-related laws, regulations and lawsuits. Regulations such as carbon
taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits could result in greater
direct costs, including costs associated with changes to manufacturing
processes or the procurement of raw materials used in manufacturing processes,
increased capital expenditures to improve facilities and equipment, and higher
compliance and energy costs to reduce emissions, as well as greater indirect
costs resulting from our customers, suppliers or both incurring additional
compliance costs that are passed on to us. These costs and restrictions could
harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or
requiring us to alter our operations and product design activities.
Stakeholder groups may find us insufficiently responsive to the implications
of climate change, and therefore we may face legal action or reputational
harm. We may not achieve our stated goal to source 100% of our global
electricity use from renewable energy by the end of fiscal year 2025, which
could harm our reputation, or we may incur additional,

24

* * *

Table of Contents

unexpected costs to achieve such a goal. We may also experience contractual
disputes due to supply chain delays arising from climate change-related
disruptions, which could result in increased litigation and costs.

We also face risks related to business trends that may be influenced by
climate change concerns. We may face decreased demand for computationally
powerful but energy intensive products, such as our GPUs, despite their energy
efficient design and operation, and/or increased consumer or customer
expectations around the energy efficiency of our products, could negatively
impact our business.

We may not be able to realize the potential benefits of business investments
or acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition
targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new
products or sell our products.

We have acquired and invested and may continue to do so in businesses that
offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or
enhance our existing strategic objectives. Acquisitions or investments involve
significant challenges and risks and could impair our ability to grow our
business, develop new products or sell our products and ultimately could have
a negative impact on our financial results. If we pursue a particular
transaction, we may limit our ability to enter into other transactions that
could help us achieve our other strategic objectives. If we are unable to
timely complete acquisitions, including due to delays and challenges in
obtaining regulatory approvals, we may be unable to pursue other transactions,
we may not be able to retain critical talent from the target company,
technology may evolve and make the acquisition less attractive, and other
changes can take place which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the
transaction and negatively impact our business. For example, in February 2022,
NVIDIA and SoftBank announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement
whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm from SoftBank due to significant
regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We
recorded in operating expenses a $1.35 billion charge in fiscal year 2023
reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing. Regulators
could also impose conditions that reduce the ultimate value of our
acquisitions. In addition, to the extent that our perceived ability to
consummate acquisitions has been harmed, future acquisitions may be more
difficult, complex or expensive. Further, if we hold investments in publicly
traded companies, they could create volatility in our results and may generate
losses up to the value of the investment.

Additional risks related to acquisitions or strategic investments include, but
are not limited to:

•difficulty in integrating the technology, systems, products, policies,
processes, or operations and integrating and retaining the employees,
including key personnel, of the acquired business;

•diversion of capital and other resources, including management's attention;

•assumption of liabilities and incurring amortization expenses, impairment
charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets;

•integrating accounting, forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting
cycles;

•coordinating and integrating operations, particularly in countries in which
we do not currently operate;

•difficulty in realizing a satisfactory return and uncertainties to realize
the benefits of an acquisition or strategic investment, if at all;

•difficulty or inability in obtaining governmental, regulatory approval or
restrictions or other consents and approvals or financing;

•stock price impact, fines, fees or reputation harm if we are unable to obtain
regulatory approval for an acquisition or are otherwise unable to close an
acquisition;

•legal proceedings initiated as a result of an acquisition or investment;

•potential issuances of debt to finance our acquisitions, resulting in
increased debt, increased interest expense, and compliance with debt covenants
or other restrictions;

•the potential for our acquisitions to result in dilutive issuances of our
equity securities;

•the potential variability of the amount and form of any performance-based
consideration;

25

* * *

Table of Contents

•negative changes in general economic conditions in the regions or the
industries in which we or our target operate;

•exposure to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities;

•potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant
issues with the assets or company in which we are investing or are acquiring;
and

•impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target's employees,
vendors and customers.

For example, when integrating acquisition target systems into our own, we have
experienced and may continue to experience challenges including lengthy and
costly systems integration, delays in purchasing and shipping products,
difficulties with system integration via electronic data interchange and other
processes with our key suppliers and customers, and training and change
management needs of integration personnel. These challenges have impacted our
results of operations and may continue to do so in the future.

We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of
customers and our revenue could be adversely affected if we lose or are
prevented from selling to any of these customers.

We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of
customers within our distribution and partner network. With several of these
distributors and partners, we are selling multiple target market platforms
through their channels. Our operating results depend on sales within our
partner network, as well as the ability of these partners to sell products
that incorporate our processors. In the future, these partners may decide to
purchase fewer products, not to incorporate our products into their ecosystem,
or to alter their purchasing patterns in some other way. Because most of our
sales are made on a purchase order basis, our customers can cancel, change or
delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without
penalty. Our partners or customers may develop their own solutions; our
customers may purchase products from our competitors; and our partners may
discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase
our products, all of which may alter partners' or customers' purchasing
patterns. The loss of any of our large customers, a significant reduction in
purchases by them, our inability to sell to a customer due to U.S. or other
countries' trade restrictions, or any difficulties in collecting accounts
receivable would likely harm our financial condition and results of
operations.

If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key
employees, our business may be harmed.

To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must
attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees and recruit and
develop diverse talent. Labor is subject to external factors that are beyond
our control, including our industry's highly competitive market for skilled
workers and leaders, cost inflation, the COVID-19 pandemic and workforce
participation rates. Changes in immigration and work permit regulations or in
their administration or interpretation could impair our ability to attract and
retain qualified employees. Competition for personnel results in increased
costs in the form of cash and stock-based compensation, and in times of stock
price volatility, as we have experienced in the past and may experience in the
future, the retentive value of our stock-based compensation may decrease.
Additionally, we are highly dependent on the services of our longstanding
executive team. Failure to ensure effective succession planning, transfer of
knowledge and smooth transitions involving executives and key employees could
hinder our strategic planning and execution and long-term success.

Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our business
processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such
systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls.

We rely upon internal processes and information systems to support key
business functions, including our assessment of internal controls over
financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The
efficient operation and scalability of these processes and systems is critical
to support our growth. In fiscal year 2023, we continued the implementation of
accounting and consolidation functionality related to a new enterprise
resource planning, or ERP, system. Any ERP system problems upon
implementation, such as quality issues or programming errors, could impact our
continued ability to successfully operate our business or to timely and
accurately report our financial results. These changes may be costly and
disruptive to our operations and could impose substantial demands on
management time. Failure to implement new or updated controls, or difficulties
encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause
us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.

26

* * *

Table of Contents

Identification of material weaknesses in our internal controls, even if
quickly remediated once disclosed, may cause investors to lose confidence in
our financial statements and our stock price may decline. Remediation of any
material weakness could require us to incur significant expenses, and if we
fail to remediate any material weakness, our financial statements may be
inaccurate, we may be required to restate our financial statements, our
ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be
adversely affected, our access to the capital markets may be restricted, our
stock price may decline, and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation
by regulatory authorities.

The COVID-19 pandemic has affected and could continue to have a material
adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted and may continue to impact our workforce
and operations and those of our customers, partners, vendors and suppliers.
COVID-19-related disruptions have created and may continue to create supply
chain and logistics constraints, and COVID-19 containment around the world has
put restrictions on, among other areas, manufacturing facilities, commerce,
and support operations. Restrictions may be imposed or reinstated as the
pandemic resurfaces, such as lockdown measures due to COVID-19 containment
efforts in China. End customer sales for our products in China have been
negatively impacted by lockdowns and this impact may continue if lockdowns
return. COVID-19 has also resulted in, and may continue to result in,
disruption of and volatility in global financial markets, which could impact
overall technology spending or negatively affect our stock price and
liquidity. All of these factors have had or could in the future have a
material negative impact on our business.

We modified our business and workforce practices in response to COVID-19,
including with respect to flexible work and social distancing measures, and we
may take further actions as required by government regulations or in the best
interests of our employees, customers, partners and suppliers. These and other
measures have caused and may in the future cause us to incur incremental
expenses and costs.

The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and
financial performance and our ability to timely execute our business
strategies may continue to be difficult to measure and predict. The impact of
COVID-19 can also exacerbate other risks discussed in these risk factors.

Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future
fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of
securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline.

Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may continue to
fluctuate due to numerous factors described in these risk factors. Therefore,
investors should not rely on past comparisons of our results of operations as
an indication of our future performance. Additional factors that could affect
our results of operations include, but are not limited to:

•our ability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to the multi-
year development cycle for some of our products and services;

•our ability to comply with our customers' contractual obligations;

•our extended payment term arrangements with certain customers, the inability
of some customers to make required payments, our ability to obtain credit
insurance for these customers and their extended payment terms, and customer
bad debt write-offs;

•our vendors' payment requirements;

•unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities; and

•changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing
standards.

Any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving
our anticipated future financial results. For example, we have granted and may
continue to grant extended payment terms to some customers, particularly
during macroeconomic downturns, which could impact our ability to collect
payment. Our vendors have requested and may continue to ask for shorter
payment terms, which may impact our cash flow generation. These arrangements
reduce the cash we have available for general business operations. Failure to
meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security
analysts is likely to cause our stock price to decline, as it has in the past,
or experience substantial price volatility.

27

* * *

Table of Contents

Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters

Our operations could be affected by the complex laws, rules and regulations to
which our business is subject, and political and other actions may adversely
impact our business.

We are subject to laws and regulations domestically and worldwide, affecting
our operations in areas including, but not limited to, IP ownership and
infringement; taxes; import and export requirements and tariffs; anti-
corruption, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; business
acquisitions; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions;
data privacy requirements; competition and antitrust; advertising; employment;
product regulations; cybersecurity; environmental, health, and safety
requirements; the responsible use of AI; climate change; cryptocurrency; and
consumer laws. Compliance with such requirements can be onerous and expensive,
could impact our competitive position, and may negatively impact our business
operations and ability to manufacture and ship our products. There can be no
assurance that our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers or agents will
not violate applicable laws or the policies, controls, and procedures that we
have designed to help ensure compliance with such laws, and violations could
result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our
employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our
reputation. Changes to the laws, rules and regulations to which we are
subject, or changes to their interpretation and enforcement could lead to
materially greater compliance and other costs and/or further restrictions on
our ability to manufacture and supply our products and operate our business.
For example, we may face increased compliance costs as a result of changes or
increases in anti-competition legislation, regulation, administrative rule
making, increased focus from regulators on cybersecurity vulnerabilities and
risks, and enforcement activity resulting from growing public concern over
concentration of economic power in corporations. Revisions to laws or
regulations or their interpretation and enforcement could also result in
increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of or increase to import
duties or tariffs, restrictions and controls on imports or exports, or other
retaliatory actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans
or impact the timing of our shipments. Additionally, changes in the public
perception of governments in the regions where we operate or plan to operate
could negatively impact our business and results of operations.

Government actions, including trade protection and national security policies
of U.S. and foreign government bodies, such as tariffs, import or export
regulations, including deemed export restrictions, trade and economic
sanctions, decrees, quotas or other trade barriers and restrictions could
affect our ability to ship products, provide services to our customers and
employees, do business without an export license with entities on the U.S.
Department of Commerce's U.S. Entity List or other U.S. government restricted
parties lists (which is expected to change from time to time), and generally
fulfill our contractual obligations and have a material adverse effect on our
business. If we were ever found to have violated export control laws or
sanctions of the U.S. or similar applicable non-U.S. laws, even if the
violation occurred without our knowledge, we may be subject to various
penalties available under the laws, any of which could have a material and
adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.

For example, in response to the war in Ukraine, the United States and other
jurisdictions imposed economic sanctions and export control measures which
blocked the passage of our products, services and support into Russia,
Belarus, and certain regions of Ukraine. In fiscal year 2023, we stopped
direct sales to Russia and closed business operations in Russia. Concurrently,
the war in Ukraine has impacted end customer sales in EMEA and may continue to
do so in the future.

The increasing focus on the strategic importance of AI technologies has
already resulted in regulatory restrictions that target products and services
capable of enabling or facilitating AI, and may in the future result in
additional restrictions impacting some or all of our product and service
offerings. Such restrictions could include additional unilateral or
multilateral export controls on certain products or technology, including but
not limited to AI technologies. As geopolitical tensions have increased,
semiconductors associated with AI, including GPUs and associated products, are
increasingly the focus of export control restrictions proposed by stakeholders
in the U.S. and its allies, and it is likely that additional unilateral or
multilateral controls will be adopted. Such controls may be very broad in
scope and application, prohibit us from exporting our products to any or all
customers in one or more markets, including but not limited to China, and
could negatively impact our manufacturing, testing, and warehousing locations
and options, or could impose other conditions that limit our ability to serve
demand abroad and could negatively and materially impact our business,
revenue, and financial results. Export controls targeting GPUs and
semiconductors associated with AI, which are increasingly likely, would
restrict our ability to export our technology, products, or services even
though competitors may not be subject to similar restrictions, creating a
competitive disadvantage for us and

28

* * *

Table of Contents

negatively impacting our business and financial results. Increasing use of
economic sanctions may also impact demand for our products or services,
negatively impacting our business and financial results. Additional unilateral
or multilateral controls are also likely to include deemed export control
limitations that negatively impact the ability of our research and development
teams to execute our roadmap or other objectives in a timely manner.
Additional export restrictions may not only impact our ability to serve
overseas markets, but also provoke responses from foreign governments,
including China, that negatively impact our supply chain or our ability to
provide our products and services to customers in all markets worldwide, which
could also substantially reduce our revenue.

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the U.S. government, or USG,
announced new export restrictions and export licensing requirements targeting
China's semiconductor and supercomputing industries. These restrictions impact
exports of certain chips, as well as software, hardware, equipment, and
technology used to develop, produce, and manufacture certain chips, to China
(including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia, and specifically impact our A100
and H100 integrated circuits, DGX or any other systems or boards which
incorporate A100 or H100 integrated circuits and our A100X. The new license
requirements also apply to any future NVIDIA integrated circuit achieving
certain peak performance and chip-to-chip I/O performance thresholds, as well
as any system or board that includes those circuits. There are also now
licensing requirements to export a wide array of products, including
networking products, destined for certain end users and for certain end uses
in China.

We are required to transition certain operations out of China (including Hong
Kong), which could be costly and time consuming, and adversely affect our
research and development and supply and distribution operations, as well as
our revenue, during any such transition period.

We have engaged with customers in China to provide alternative products not
subject to the new license requirements, such as our new A800 offering. To the
extent that a customer requires products covered by the new license
requirements, we may seek a license for the customer but have no assurance
that the USG will grant any exemptions or licenses for any customer, or that
the USG will act on them in a timely manner. The new requirements may have a
disproportionate impact on NVIDIA and may disadvantage NVIDIA against certain
of our competitors who sell products that are not subject to the new
restrictions or may be able to acquire licenses for their products.

Management of these new license and other requirements is complicated and time
consuming. Our results and competitive position may be harmed if customers in
China do not want to purchase our alternative product offerings, if customers
purchase product from competitors, if customers develop their own internal
solution, if we are unable to provide contractual warranty or other extended
service obligations, if the USG does not grant licenses in a timely manner or
denies licenses to significant customers, or if we incur significant
transition costs. Additionally, if we are unable to sell our alternative
product offerings in China, we may have excess inventory, harming our results.
Even if the USG grants any requested licenses, the licenses may be temporary
or impose burdensome conditions that we cannot or choose not to fulfill. The
new requirements may benefit certain of our competitors, as the licensing
process will make our pre-sale and post-sale technical support efforts more
cumbersome and less certain, and encourage customers in China to pursue
alternatives to our products, including semiconductor suppliers based in
China, Europe, and Israel.

Additionally, restrictions imposed by the Chinese government on the duration
of gaming activities and access to games may adversely affect our Gaming
revenue, and increased oversight of digital platform companies may adversely
affect our Data Center revenue.

Increased scrutiny from shareholders, regulators and others regarding our
environmental, social and governance responsibilities could result in
additional costs or risks and adversely impact our reputation and willingness
of customers and suppliers to do business with us.

Shareholder advocacy groups, certain investment funds, other market
participants, shareholders and customers have placed increased importance on
the implications of the social and environmental cost of their investments and
these parties, as well as government regulators, have focused increasingly on
corporate ESG and sustainability practices and disclosures, including those
associated with climate change and human rights. Stakeholders may not be
satisfied with our ESG practices or the speed of their adoption. Additionally,
our ESG practices, oversight of ESG practices, or disclosure controls may not
meet evolving shareholder, regulator, or other industry stakeholder
expectations, or we may fail to meet sustainability disclosure or ESG
reporting standards. We could also incur additional costs and require
additional resources to monitor, report, and comply with various ESG
practices, choose not to conduct business with potential

29

* * *

Table of Contents

customers, or discontinue or not expand business with existing customers due
to our policies. These factors may negatively harm our brand, reputation and
business activities or expose us to liability.

Issues relating to the responsible use of our technologies, including AI in
our offerings, may result in reputational and financial harm and liability.

Concerns relating to the responsible use of new and evolving technologies,
such as AI, in our products and services may result in reputational and
financial harm and liability, and may cause us to incur costs to resolve such
issues. We are increasingly building AI capabilities into many of our products
and services. AI poses emerging ethical issues and presents risks and
challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. If we
enable or offer solutions that draw controversy due to their perceived or
actual impact on society, such as AI solutions that have unintended
consequences or are controversial because of their impact on human rights,
privacy, employment, or other social, economic, or political issues, or if we
are unable to develop effective internal policies and frameworks relating to
the responsible development and use of AI models and systems offered through
our sales channels, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive
harm or legal liability. Compliance with government regulation in the area of
AI ethics may also increase the cost of related research and development, and
changes in AI-related regulation could disproportionately impact and
disadvantage us and require us to change our business practices, which may
negatively impact our financial results. Our failure to address concerns
relating to the responsible use of AI by us or others could undermine public
confidence in AI and slow adoption of AI in our products and services or cause
reputational harm.

Actions to adequately protect our IP rights could result in substantial costs
to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we are unsuccessful or if
we are prohibited from making or selling our products.

From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings
alleging patent infringement or other IP rights violations by us, our
employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify. An unfavorable ruling
could include significant damages, invalidation of one or more patents,
indemnification of third parties, payment of lost profits, or injunctive
relief. Claims that our products or processes infringe the IP rights of
others, regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant costs
to respond to, defend, and resolve such claims, and they may also divert the
efforts and attention of management and technical personnel.

We may commence legal proceedings to protect our IP rights, which may increase
our operating expenses. We could be subject to countersuits as a result. If
infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe
a third party's IP, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to
the third party's IP rights. If we or one of our indemnitees is unable to
obtain such a license, on acceptable terms or at all, we could be subject to
substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and
sale of one or more of our products. We may also have to make royalty or other
payments, or cross license our technology. If these arrangements are not
concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively
impacted. Furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee
may increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating
results.

We rely on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party
nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and the laws of the
countries in which we operate to protect our IP. Foreign laws may not protect
our products or IP rights to the same extent as United States law. This makes
the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. The
theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other
confidential information could harm our competitive position and reduce
acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in
research and development, product development, and marketing could be reduced.
We also may face risks to our IP if our employees are hired by competitors. We
continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing
and new innovations and technologies but cannot be certain whether our
applications for such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether
they will be enforceable.

We are subject to stringent and changing data privacy and security laws,
rules, regulations, and other obligations. Privacy or security concerns
relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter
current and potential customers, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings
and liability.

We may process sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is
subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, industry standards,
external and internal policies, contracts and other obligations that govern
the processing of such data by us and on our behalf. Concerns about our
practices or the ultimate use

30

* * *

Table of Contents

of our products and services with regard to the collection, use, retention,
security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related
matters, including for use in AI, even if unfounded, could damage our
reputation and adversely affect our operating results. The theft, loss, or
misuse of personal data in our possession or by one of our partners could
result in damage to our reputation, regulatory proceedings, disruption of our
business activities or increased security costs and costs related to defending
legal claims.

In the United States, federal, state and local authorities have enacted
numerous data privacy and security laws, including for data breach
notification, personal data privacy, and consumer protection. The California
Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, or CCPA, gives California residents the right to
access, delete and opt-out of certain sharing of their personal information,
and to receive detailed information about how it is used and shared. The CCPA
allows for statutory fines of up to $7,500 per violation and the law created a
private right of action for certain data breaches. The California Privacy
Rights Act of 2020, or CPRA, became operative in 2023, and restricts the use
of certain categories of sensitive personal information; further restricts the
use of cross-contextual advertising techniques; restricts the retention of
personal information; expands the types of data breaches subject to the
private right of action; and establishes the California Privacy Protection
Agency which can impose administrative fines for noncompliance. Virginia,
Colorado, Utah and Connecticut have each passed their own privacy legislation
which differ from the CPRA and each become effective in 2023. Similar laws are
being considered in several other states, as well as at the federal and local
levels. Additionally, several states and localities have enacted measures
related to the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning in products
and services. If we become subject to additional data privacy laws, the risk
of enforcement action against us could increase.

Worldwide regulatory authorities are also considering and have approved
various legislative proposals concerning data protection. The European Union
adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, and the United
Kingdom similarly adopted the U.K. GDPR, governing the strict handling of
personal data of persons within the European Economic Area, or EEA, and the
United Kingdom, respectively, including its use and protection and the ability
of persons whose data is stored to access, correct, and delete such data about
themselves. If we are found not to comply, we could be subject to penalties of
up to €20 million or 4% of worldwide revenue, whichever is greater, and
classes of individuals or consumer protection organizations may initiate
litigation related to our processing of their personal data. Furthermore,
there exists a proposed European regulation related to AI that, if adopted,
could impose onerous obligations that may disproportionately impact and
disadvantage us and require us to change our business practices.

In the ordinary course of business, we may transfer personal data from Europe,
China, and other jurisdictions to the United States or other countries.
Certain jurisdictions have enacted data localization laws and cross-border
personal data transfer laws. For example, the GDPR generally restricts the
transfer of personal data to countries outside of the EEA. The European
Commission released a set of "Standard Contractual Clauses" designed for
entities to validly transfer personal data out of the EEA to jurisdictions
that the European Commission has not found to provide an adequate level of
protection, including the United States. While the European Union and United
States governments have recently announced an agreement in principle on a new
bilateral cross-border transfer mechanism, it is uncertain whether this
agreement will be overturned in court like the previous two European Union-
United States bilateral cross-border transfer agreements. These mechanisms are
subject to legal challenges, and there is no assurance that we can satisfy or
rely on these measures to lawfully transfer personal data to the United
States. Other jurisdictions have enacted or are considering similar cross-
border personal data transfer laws and local personal data residency laws, any
of which would increase the cost and complexity of doing business and could
result in fines from regulators. For example, China law imposes various
requirements relating to data processing and data localization. Data broadly
defined as important under China law, including personal data, may not be
transferable outside of China without prior assessment and approval by the
Cyberspace Administration of China, or CAC. Compliance with these
requirements, including CAC assessments and any deemed failures of such
assessments, could cause us to incur liability, prevent us from using data
collected in China, or impact our ability to transfer data outside of China.
The inability to import personal data to the United States could significantly
and negatively impact our business operations, limit our ability to
collaborate with parties that are subject to European, China, and other data
privacy and security laws, or require us to increase our personal data
processing capabilities in Europe and/or elsewhere at significant expense.
Some European regulators have prevented companies from transferring personal
data out of Europe for allegedly violating the GDPR's cross-border data
transfer limitations, which could negatively impact our business.

We may also be bound by contractual obligations related to data privacy and
security, and our efforts to comply with such obligations may not be
successful or may be claimed to be non-compliant. For example,

31

* * *

Table of Contents

certain privacy laws, such as the GDPR and the CCPA, require our customers to
impose specific contractual restrictions on their service providers. We
sometimes host personal data in collaboration with our customers, and if a
breach exposed or altered that personal data, it could harm those customer
relationships and subject us to litigation, regulatory action, or fines. We
may publish privacy policies, marketing materials and other statements, such
as compliance with certain certifications or self-regulatory principles,
regarding data privacy and security. If these policies, materials or
statements are found to be deficient, lacking in transparency, deceptive,
unfair, or misrepresentative of our practices, we may be subject to
investigation, enforcement actions by regulators or other adverse
consequences.

Data protection laws around the world are quickly changing and may be
interpreted and applied in an increasingly stringent fashion and in a manner
that is inconsistent with our data practices. These obligations may
necessitate changes to our information technologies, systems, and practices
and to those of any third parties that process personal data on our behalf.
Despite our efforts, we or third parties upon whom we rely may fail to comply
with such obligations. If we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to address
or comply with data privacy and security obligations, we could face
significant consequences, including but not limited to, government enforcement
actions, litigation, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, bans
on processing personal data and orders to destroy or not use personal data.
Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation,
business, or financial condition.

We have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our operating results may
be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates and other tax-related
factors.

We are subject to complex income tax laws and regulations, as well as non-
income-based taxes, in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required
in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax
liabilities. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities in different
jurisdictions. For example, we are currently under examination by the Internal
Revenue Service for our fiscal years 2018 and 2019 and undergoing tax audits
in Germany, Israel and India. Although we believe our tax estimates are
reasonable, any adverse outcome could increase our worldwide effective tax
rate, increase the amount of non-income taxes imposed on our business, and
harm our financial position, results of operations, net income, and cash
flows.

Further, changes in tax laws may materially impact our results of operations,
or the way we conduct our business. These include changes to U.S. tax laws and
regulations, such as the Inflation Reduction Act, which implements a 15%
minimum tax on book income and a 1% excise tax on net stock repurchases and
parts of which became effective for us in fiscal year 2023. It is possible
that these changes, or other tax law changes, could increase our future tax
liability or cause other adverse impacts. Most of our income is taxable in the
United States, with a significant portion qualifying for preferential
treatment as foreign-derived intangible income, or FDII. If U.S. tax rates
increase or the FDII deduction is reduced, our provision for income taxes,
results of operations, net income and cash flows would be adversely affected.
In addition, changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a
result of the base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD. The OECD
recommended changes to long-standing tax principles and continues to develop
new proposals, including allocating greater taxing rights to countries where
customers are located and establishing a minimum tax on global income. These
changes, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and adversely
affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations and financial
condition.

Our future effective tax rate may also be affected by a variety of factors,
including changes in our business or statutory rates, the mix of earnings in
countries with differing statutory tax rates, available tax incentives,
credits and deductions, the expiration of statute of limitations and
settlements of tax audits, changes in accounting principles, adjustments to
income taxes upon finalization of tax returns, increases in expenses not
deductible for tax purposes, the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
liabilities and deferred tax valuation allowances, changing interpretation of
existing laws or regulations, the impact of accounting for business
combinations, as well as changes in the domestic or international organization
of our business and structure. Furthermore, the tax effects of accounting for
stock-based compensation and volatility in our stock price may significantly
impact our effective tax rate in the period in which they occur. A decline in
our stock price may result in reduced future tax benefits from stock-based
compensation, increase our effective tax rate, and adversely affect our
financial results.

Our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation,
investigations and regulatory proceedings.

We currently and will likely continue to face legal, administrative and
regulatory proceedings, claims, demands and/or investigations involving
shareholder, consumer, competition and/or other issues relating to

32

* * *

Table of Contents

our business. For example, we are defending on appeal the dismissal of a
securities class action lawsuit from multiple shareholders asserting claims
that we and certain of our officers made false and/or misleading statements
related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on GPU
demand in 2017 and 2018. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently
uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages or
fines, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain
products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies,
such as compulsory licensing of patents. An unfavorable outcome or settlement
may result in a material adverse impact. Regardless of the outcome, litigation
can be costly, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations.

Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows
from operations, and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling
our contractual obligations.

As of January 29, 2023, we had outstanding a total of $11 billion in notes due
by 2060. As each series of senior notes matures, unless redeemed or
repurchased, we must repay or refinance the notes. If we decide to refinance,
we may receive less favorable terms, or we may be unable to refinance at all,
which may adversely affect our financial condition. We also have a $575
million commercial paper program.

Maintenance of our current and future indebtedness and contractual
restrictions could cause us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash
flows from operations towards debt service obligations and principal
repayments; increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic,
industry and competitive conditions; limit our flexibility regarding changes
in our business and our industry; impair our ability to obtain future
financing; and restrict our ability to grant liens on property, enter into
certain mergers, dispose of our assets, or materially change our business.

Our ability to comply with the covenants in our indenture may be affected by
events beyond our control. If we breach any of the covenants without a waiver
from the note holders or lenders, then any outstanding indebtedness may be
declared immediately due and payable. Changes to our credit rating may
negatively impact the value and liquidity of our securities, restrict our
ability to obtain future financing and affect the terms of any such financing.

Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and agreement with
Microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control.

The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may
discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control. Provisions in our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a
third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding stock. These provisions
include the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue preferred
stock, change the number of directors, and to make, amend or repeal our bylaws
without prior shareholder approval; the inability of our shareholders to act
by written consent or call special meetings; advance notice requirements for
director nominations and shareholder proposals; and a super-majority voting
requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and
bylaws. Under our agreement with Microsoft for the Xbox, if someone makes an
offer to purchase at least 30% of our outstanding common stock, Microsoft may
have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. These provisions
could delay or prevent a change in control of NVIDIA, discourage proxy
contests, and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of
their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

Not applicable.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Our headquarters is in Santa Clara, California. We own and lease approximately
3 million square feet of office and building space for our corporate
headquarters. In addition, we lease data center space in Santa Clara,
California. We also own and lease facilities for data centers, research and
development, and/or sales and administrative purposes throughout the U.S. and
in various international locations, primarily in China, India, Israel, and
Taiwan. We believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are in good
condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. We do not identify or
allocate assets by operating segment. For additional information regarding
obligations under leases, refer to Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

33

* * *

Table of Contents

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Please see Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of our
legal proceedings.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

PART II

