ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

We design, develop, manufacture, sell and lease high-performance fully
electric vehicles and energy generation and storage systems, and offer
services related to our products. We generally sell our products directly to
customers, and continue to grow our customer-facing infrastructure through a
global network of vehicle showrooms and service centers, Mobile Service, body
shops, Supercharger stations and Destination Chargers to accelerate the
widespread adoption of our products. We emphasize performance, attractive
styling and the safety of our users and workforce in the design and
manufacture of our products and are continuing to develop full self-driving
technology for improved safety. We also strive to lower the cost of ownership
for our customers through continuous efforts to reduce manufacturing costs and
by offering financial and other services tailored to our products.

Our mission is to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy. We
believe that this mission, along with our engineering expertise, vertically
integrated business model and focus on user experience differentiate us from
other companies.

Segment Information

We operate as two reportable segments: (i) automotive and (ii) energy
generation and storage.

The automotive segment includes the design, development, manufacturing, sales
and leasing of high-performance fully electric vehicles as well as sales of
automotive regulatory credits. Additionally, the automotive segment also
includes services and other, which includes sales of used vehicles, non-
warranty after-sales vehicle services, body shop and parts, paid
Supercharging, vehicle insurance revenue and retail merchandise. The energy
generation and storage segment includes the design, manufacture, installation,
sales and leasing of solar energy generation and energy storage products and
related services and sales of solar energy systems incentives.

Our Products and Services

Automotive

We currently manufacture five different consumer vehicles - the Model 3, Y, S,
X and Cybertruck. Model 3 is a four-door mid-size sedan that we designed for
manufacturability with a base price for mass-market appeal. Model Y is a
compact sport utility vehicle ("SUV") built on the Model 3 platform with
seating for up to seven adults. Model S is a four-door full-size sedan and
Model X is a mid-size SUV with seating for up to seven adults. Model S and
Model X feature the highest performance characteristics and longest ranges
that we offer in a sedan and SUV, respectively. In November 2023, we entered
the consumer pickup truck market with first deliveries of the Cybertruck, a
full-size electric pickup truck with a stainless steel exterior that has the
utility and strength of a truck while featuring the speed of a sports car.

In 2022, we also began early production and deliveries of a commercial
electric vehicle, the Tesla Semi. We have planned electric vehicles to address
additional vehicle markets, and to continue leveraging developments in our
proprietary Full Self-Driving ("FSD") Capability features, battery cell and
other technologies.

Energy Generation and Storage

Energy Storage Products

Powerwall and Megapack are our lithium-ion battery energy storage products.
Powerwall, which we sell directly to customers, as well as through channel
partners, is designed to store energy at a home or small commercial facility.
Megapack is an energy storage solution for commercial, industrial, utility and
energy generation customers, multiple of which may be grouped together to form
larger installations of gigawatt hours ("GWh") or greater capacity.

We also continue to develop software capabilities for remotely controlling and
dispatching our energy storage systems across a wide range of markets and
applications, including through our real-time energy control and optimization
platforms.

4

* * *

Table of Contents

Solar Energy Offerings

We sell retrofit solar energy systems to customers and channel partners and
also make them available through power purchase agreement ("PPA")
arrangements. We purchase most of the components for our retrofit solar energy
systems from multiple sources to ensure competitive pricing and adequate
supply. We also design and manufacture certain components for our solar energy
products.

We sell our Solar Roof, which combines premium glass roof tiles with energy
generation, directly to customers, as well as through channel customers. We
continue to improve our installation capability and efficiency, including
through collaboration with real estate developers and builders on new homes.

Technology

Automotive

Battery and Powertrain

Our core vehicle technology competencies include powertrain engineering and
manufacturing and our ability to design vehicles that utilize the unique
advantages of an electric powertrain. We have designed our proprietary
powertrain systems to be adaptable, efficient, reliable and cost-effective
while withstanding the rigors of an automotive environment. We offer dual
motor powertrain vehicles, which use two electric motors to maximize traction
and performance in an all-wheel drive configuration, as well as vehicle
powertrain technology featuring three electric motors for further increased
performance in certain versions of Model S and Model X, Cybertruck and the
Tesla Semi.

We maintain extensive testing and R&D capabilities for battery cells, packs
and systems, and have built an expansive body of knowledge on lithium-ion cell
chemistry types and performance characteristics. In order to enable a greater
supply of cells for our products with higher energy density at lower costs, we
have developed a new proprietary lithium-ion battery cell and improved
manufacturing processes.

Vehicle Control and Infotainment Software

The performance and safety systems of our vehicles and their battery packs
utilize sophisticated control software. Control systems in our vehicles
optimize performance, customize vehicle behavior, manage charging and control
all infotainment functions. We develop almost all of this software, including
most of the user interfaces, internally and update our vehicles' software
regularly through over-the-air updates.

Self-Driving Development and Artificial Intelligence

We have expertise in developing technologies, systems and software to enable
self-driving vehicles using primarily vision-based technologies. Our FSD
Computer runs our neural networks in our vehicles, and we are also developing
additional computer hardware to better enable the massive amounts of field
data captured by our vehicles to continually train and improve these neural
networks for real-world performance.

Currently, we offer in our vehicles certain advanced driver assist systems
under our Autopilot and FSD Capability options. Although at present the driver
is ultimately responsible for controlling the vehicle, our systems provide
safety and convenience functionality that relieves drivers of the most tedious
and potentially dangerous aspects of road travel much like the system that
airplane pilots use, when conditions permit. As with other vehicle systems, we
improve these functions in our vehicles over time through over-the-air
updates.

We intend to establish in the future an autonomous Tesla ride-hailing network,
which we expect would also allow us to access a new customer base even as
modes of transportation evolve.

We are also applying our artificial intelligence learnings from self-driving
technology to the field of robotics, such as through Optimus, a robotic
humanoid in development, which is controlled by the same AI system.

5

* * *

Table of Contents

Energy Generation and Storage

Energy Storage Products

We leverage many of the component-level technologies from our vehicles in our
energy storage products. By taking a modular approach to the design of battery
systems, we can optimize manufacturing capacity of our energy storage
products. Additionally, our expertise in power electronics enables our battery
systems to interconnect with electricity grids while providing fast-acting
systems for power injection and absorption. We have also developed software to
remotely control and dispatch our energy storage systems.

Solar Energy Systems

We have engineered Solar Roof over numerous iterations to combine aesthetic
appeal and durability with power generation. The efficiency of our solar
energy products is aided by our own solar inverter, which incorporates our
power electronics technologies. We designed both products to integrate with
Powerwall.

Design and Engineering

Automotive

We have established significant in-house capabilities in the design and test
engineering of electric vehicles and their components and systems. Our team
has significant experience in computer-aided design as well as durability,
strength and crash test simulations, which reduces the product development
time of new models. We have also achieved complex engineering feats in
stamping, casting and thermal systems, and developed a method to integrate
batteries directly with vehicle body structures without separate battery packs
to optimize manufacturability, weight, range and cost characteristics.

We are also expanding our manufacturing operations globally while taking
action to localize our vehicle designs and production for particular markets,
including country-specific market demands and factory optimizations for local
workforces. As we increase our capabilities, particularly in the areas of
automation, die-making and line-building, we are also making strides in the
simulations modeling these capabilities prior to construction.

Energy Generation and Storage

Our expertise in electrical, mechanical, civil and software engineering allows
us to design, engineer, manufacture and install energy generating and storage
products and components, including at the residential through utility scale.
For example, the modular design of our Megapack utility-scale battery line is
intended to significantly reduce the amount of assembly required in the field.
We also customize solutions including our energy storage products, solar
energy systems and/or Solar Roof for customers to meet their specific needs.

Sales and Marketing

Historically, we have been able to achieve sales without traditional
advertising and at relatively low marketing costs. We continue to monitor our
public narrative and brand, and tailor our marketing efforts accordingly,
including through investments in customer education and advertising as
necessary.

Automotive

Direct Sales

Our vehicle sales channels currently include our website and an international
network of company-owned stores. In some jurisdictions, we also have galleries
to educate and inform customers about our products, but such locations do not
transact in the sale of vehicles. We believe this infrastructure enables us to
better control costs of inventory, manage warranty service and pricing,
educate consumers about electric vehicles, make our vehicles more affordable,
maintain and strengthen the Tesla brand and obtain rapid customer feedback.

We reevaluate our sales strategy both globally and at a location-by-location
level from time to time to optimize our sales channels. However, sales of
vehicles in the automobile industry tend to be cyclical in many markets, which
may expose us to volatility from time to time.

6

* * *

Table of Contents

Used Vehicle Sales

Our used vehicle business supports new vehicle sales by integrating the trade-
in of a customer's existing Tesla or non-Tesla vehicle with the sale of a new
or used Tesla vehicle. The Tesla and non-Tesla vehicles we acquire as trade-
ins are subsequently remarketed, either directly by us or through third
parties. We also remarket used Tesla vehicles acquired from other sources
including lease returns.

Public Charging

  

We have a growing global network of Tesla Superchargers, which are our
industrial-grade, high-speed vehicle chargers. Where possible, we co-locate
Superchargers with our solar and energy storage systems to reduce costs and
promote renewable power. Supercharger stations are typically placed along
well-traveled routes and in and around dense city centers to allow vehicle
owners the ability to enjoy quick, reliable charging along an extensive
network with convenient stops. Use of the Supercharger network either requires
payment of a fee or is free under certain sales programs. In November 2021, we
began to offer Supercharger access to non-Tesla vehicles in certain locations
in support of our mission to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable
energy, and in November 2022, we opened up our previously proprietary charging
connector as the North American Charging Standard (NACS). This enables all
electric vehicles and charging stations to interoperate -- which makes
charging easier and more efficient for everyone and advances our mission to
accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy. Following this, a
number of major automotive companies announced their adoption of NACS, with
their access to the Supercharger network beginning in phases in 2024 and their
production of NACS vehicles beginning no later than 2025. We also engaged SAE
International to govern NACS as an industry standard, now named J3400. We
continue to monitor and increase our network of Tesla Superchargers in
anticipation of future demand.

We also work with a wide variety of hospitality, retail and public
destinations, as well as businesses with commuting employees, to offer
additional charging options for our customers, as well as single-family
homeowners and multi-family residential entities, to deploy home charging
solutions.

In-App Upgrades

As our vehicles are capable of being updated remotely over-the-air, our
customers may purchase additional paid options and features through the Tesla
app or through the in-vehicle user interface. We expect that this
functionality will also allow us to offer certain options and features on a
subscription basis in the future.

Energy Generation and Storage

We market and sell our solar and energy storage products to residential,
commercial and industrial customers and utilities through a variety of
channels, including through our website, stores and galleries, as well as
through our network of channel partners, and in the case of some commercial
customers, through PPA transactions. We emphasize simplicity, standardization
and accessibility to make it easy and cost-effective for customers to adopt
clean energy, while reducing our customer acquisition costs.

Service and Warranty

Automotive

Service

We provide service for our electric vehicles at our company-owned service
locations and through Tesla Mobile Service technicians who perform work
remotely at customers' homes or other locations. Servicing the vehicles
ourselves allows us to identify problems and implement solutions and
improvements faster than traditional automobile manufacturers and their dealer
networks. The connectivity of our vehicles also allows us to diagnose and
remedy many problems remotely and proactively.

Vehicle Limited Warranties and Extended Service Plans

We provide a manufacturer's limited warranty on all new and used Tesla
vehicles we sell directly to consumers, which may include limited warranties
on certain components, specific types of damage or battery capacity retention.
We also currently offer optional extended service plans that provide coverage
beyond the new vehicle limited warranties for certain models in specified
regions.

7

* * *

Table of Contents

Energy Generation and Storage

We provide service and repairs to our energy product customers, including
under warranty where applicable. We generally provide manufacturer's limited
warranties with our energy storage products and offer certain extended limited
warranties that are available at the time of purchase of the system. If we
install a system, we also provide certain limited warranties on our
installation workmanship.

For retrofit solar energy systems, we provide separate limited warranties for
workmanship and against roof leaks, and for Solar Roof, we also provide
limited warranties for defects and weatherization. For components not
manufactured by us, we generally pass-through the applicable manufacturers'
warranties.

As part of our solar energy system and energy storage contracts, we may
provide the customer with performance guarantees that commit that the
underlying system will meet or exceed the minimum energy generation or
performance requirements specified in the contract.

Financial Services

Automotive

Purchase Financing and Leases

We offer leasing and/or loan financing arrangements for our vehicles in
certain jurisdictions in North America, Europe and Asia ourselves and through
various financial institutions. Under certain of such programs, we have
provided resale value guarantees or buyback guarantees that may obligate us to
cover a resale loss up to a certain limit or repurchase the subject vehicles
at pre-determined values.

Insurance

In 2021, we launched our insurance product using real-time driving behavior in
select states, which offers rates that are often better than other
alternatives and promotes safer driving. Our insurance products are currently
available in 12 states and we plan to expand the markets in which we offer
insurance products, as part of our ongoing effort to decrease the total cost
of ownership for our customers.

Energy Generation and Storage

We offer certain financing options to our solar customers, which enable the
customer to purchase and own a solar energy system, Solar Roof or integrated
solar and Powerwall system. Our solar PPAs, offered primarily to commercial
customers, charge a fee per kilowatt-hour based on the amount of electricity
produced by our solar energy systems.

Manufacturing

We currently have manufacturing facilities in the U.S. in Northern California,
in Buffalo, New York, Gigafactory New York; in Austin, Texas, Gigafactory
Texas and near Reno, Nevada, Gigafactory Nevada. At these facilities, we
manufacture and assemble, among other things, vehicles, certain vehicle parts
and components, such as our battery packs and battery cells, energy storage
components and solar products and components.

Internationally, we also have manufacturing facilities in China (Gigafactory
Shanghai) and Germany (Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg), which allows us to
increase the affordability of our vehicles for customers in local markets by
reducing transportation and manufacturing costs and eliminating the impact of
unfavorable tariffs. In March 2023, we announced the location of our next
Gigafactory in Monterrey, Mexico. Generally, we continue to expand production
capacity at our existing facilities. We also intend to further increase cost-
competitiveness in our significant markets by strategically adding local
manufacturing.

Supply Chain

Our products use thousands of parts that are sourced from hundreds of
suppliers across the world. We have developed close relationships with vendors
of key parts such as battery cells, electronics and complex vehicle
assemblies. Certain components purchased from these suppliers are shared or
are similar across many product lines, allowing us to take advantage of
pricing efficiencies from economies of scale.

8

* * *

Table of Contents

As is the case for some automotive companies, some of our procured components
and systems are sourced from single suppliers. Where multiple sources are
available for certain key components, we work to qualify multiple suppliers
for them where it is sensible to do so in order to minimize potential
production risks due to disruptions in their supply. We also mitigate risk by
maintaining safety stock for key parts and assemblies and die banks for
components with lengthy procurement lead times.

Our products use various raw materials including aluminum, steel, cobalt,
lithium, nickel and copper. Pricing for these materials is governed by market
conditions and may fluctuate due to various factors outside of our control,
such as supply and demand and market speculation. We strive to execute long-
term supply contracts for such materials at competitive pricing when feasible,
and we currently believe that we have adequate access to raw materials
supplies to meet the needs of our operations.

Governmental Programs, Incentives and Regulations

Globally, the ownership of our products by our customers is impacted by
various government credits, incentives, and policies. Our business and
products are also subject to numerous governmental regulations that vary among
jurisdictions.

The operation of our business is also impacted by various government programs,
incentives, and other arrangements. See Note 2, Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.

Programs and Incentives

Inflation Reduction Act

On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 ("IRA") was enacted
into law and is effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2022,
and remains subject to future guidance releases. The IRA includes multiple
incentives to promote clean energy, electric vehicles, battery and energy
storage manufacture or purchase, including through providing tax credits to
consumers. For example, qualifying Tesla customers may receive up to $7,500 in
federal tax credits for the purchase of qualified electric vehicles in the
U.S. through 2032.

Automotive Regulatory Credits

We earn tradable credits in the operation of our business under various
regulations related to zero-emission vehicles ("ZEVs"), greenhouse gas, fuel
economy and clean fuel. We sell these credits to other regulated entities who
can use the credits to comply with emission standards and other regulatory
requirements. Sales of these credits are recognized within automotive
regulatory credits revenue in our consolidated statements of operations
included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Energy Storage System Incentives and Policies

While the regulatory regime for energy storage projects is still under
development, there are various policies, incentives and financial mechanisms
at the federal, state and local levels that support the adoption of energy
storage.

For example, energy storage systems that are charged using solar energy may be
eligible for the solar energy-related U.S. federal tax credits described
below. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") has also taken steps
to enable the participation of energy storage in wholesale energy markets. In
addition, California and a number of other states have adopted procurement
targets for energy storage, and behind-the-meter energy storage systems
qualify for funding under the California Self Generation Incentive Program.
Our customers primarily benefit directly under these programs. In certain
instances our customers may transfer such credits to us as contract
consideration. In such transactions, they are included as a component of
energy generation and storage revenues in our consolidated statements of
operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Pursuant to the IRA, under Sections 48, 48E and 25D of the Internal Revenue
Code ("IRC"), standalone energy storage technology is eligible for a tax
credit between 6% and 50% of qualified expenditures, regardless of the source
of energy, which may be claimed by our customers for storage systems they
purchase or by us for arrangements where we own the systems. These tax credits
are primarily for the benefit of our customers and are currently scheduled to
phase-out starting in 2032 or later.

9

* * *

Table of Contents

Solar Energy System Incentives and Policies

U.S. federal, state and local governments have established various policies,
incentives and financial mechanisms to reduce the cost of solar energy and to
accelerate the adoption of solar energy. These incentives include tax credits,
cash grants, tax abatements and rebates.

In particular, pursuant to the IRA, Sections 48, 48E and 25D of the IRC
provides a tax credit between 6% and 70% of qualified commercial or
residential expenditures for solar energy systems, which may be claimed by our
customers for systems they purchase, or by us for arrangements where we own
the systems for properties that meet statutory requirements. These tax credits
are primarily for the direct benefit of our customers and are currently
scheduled to phase-out starting in 2032 or later.

Regulations

Vehicle Safety and Testing

In the U.S., our vehicles are subject to regulation by the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration ("NHTSA"), including all applicable Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standards ("FMVSS") and the NHTSA bumper standard.
Numerous FMVSS apply to our vehicles, such as crash-worthiness and occupant
protection requirements. Our current vehicles fully comply and we expect that
our vehicles in the future will fully comply with all applicable FMVSS with
limited or no exemptions, however, FMVSS are subject to change from time to
time. As a manufacturer, we must self-certify that our vehicles meet all
applicable FMVSS and the NHTSA bumper standard, or otherwise are exempt,
before the vehicles may be imported or sold in the U.S.

We are also required to comply with other federal laws administered by NHTSA,
including the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, Theft Prevention Act
requirements, labeling requirements and other information provided to
customers in writing, Early Warning Reporting requirements regarding warranty
claims, field reports, death and injury reports and foreign recalls, a
Standing General Order requiring reports regarding crashes involving vehicles
equipped with advanced driver assistance systems, and additional requirements
for cooperating with compliance and safety investigations and recall
reporting. The U.S. Automobile Information and Disclosure Act also requires
manufacturers of motor vehicles to disclose certain information regarding the
manufacturer's suggested retail price, optional equipment and pricing. In
addition, federal law requires inclusion of fuel economy ratings, as
determined by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Environmental
Protection Agency (the "EPA"), and New Car Assessment Program ratings as
determined by NHTSA, if available.

Our vehicles sold outside of the U.S. are subject to similar foreign
compliance, safety, environmental and other regulations. Many of those
regulations are different from those applicable in the U.S. and may require
redesign and/or retesting. Some of those regulations impact or prevent the
rollout of new vehicle features.

Self-Driving Vehicles

Generally, laws pertaining to self-driving vehicles are evolving globally, and
in some cases may create restrictions on features or vehicle designs that we
develop. While there are currently no federal U.S. regulations pertaining
specifically to self-driving vehicles or self-driving equipment, NHTSA has
published recommended guidelines on self-driving vehicles, apart from the
FMVSS and manufacturer reporting obligations, and retains the authority to
investigate and/or take action on the safety or compliance of any vehicle,
equipment or features operating on public roads. Certain U.S. states also have
legal restrictions on the operation, registration or licensure of self-driving
vehicles, and many other states are considering them. This regulatory
patchwork increases the legal complexity with respect to self-driving vehicles
in the U.S.

In markets that follow the regulations of the United Nations Economic
Commission for Europe ("ECE markets"), some requirements restrict the design
of advanced driver-assistance or self-driving features, which can compromise
or prevent their use entirely. Other applicable laws, both current and
proposed, may hinder the path and timeline to introducing self-driving
vehicles for sale and use in the markets where they apply.

Other key markets, including China, continue to consider self-driving
regulation. Any implemented regulations may differ materially from the U.S.
and ECE markets, which may further increase the legal complexity of self-
driving vehicles and limit or prevent certain features.

10

* * *

Table of Contents

Automobile Manufacturer and Dealer Regulation

In the U.S., state laws regulate the manufacture, distribution, sale and
service of automobiles, and generally require motor vehicle manufacturers and
dealers to be licensed in order to sell vehicles directly to residents.
Certain states have asserted that the laws in such states do not permit
automobile manufacturers to be licensed as dealers or to act in the capacity
of a dealer, or that they otherwise restrict a manufacturer's ability to
deliver or perform warranty repairs on vehicles. To sell vehicles to residents
of states where we are not licensed as a dealer, we generally conduct the sale
out of the state. In certain such states, we have opened "galleries" that
serve an educational purpose and where sales may not occur.

Some automobile dealer trade associations have both challenged the legality of
our operations in court and used administrative and legislative processes to
attempt to prohibit or limit our ability to operate existing stores or expand
to new locations. Certain dealer associations have also actively lobbied state
licensing agencies and legislators to interpret existing laws or enact new
laws in ways not favorable to our ownership and operation of our own retail
and service locations. We expect such challenges to continue, and we intend to
actively fight any such efforts.

Battery Safety and Testing

Our battery packs are subject to various U.S. and international regulations
that govern transport of "dangerous goods," defined to include lithium-ion
batteries, which may present a risk in transportation. We conduct testing to
demonstrate our compliance with such regulations.

We use lithium-ion cells in our high voltage battery packs in our vehicles and
energy storage products. The use, storage and disposal of our battery packs
are regulated under existing laws and are the subject of ongoing regulatory
changes that may add additional requirements in the future. We have agreements
with third party battery recycling companies to recycle our battery packs, and
we are also piloting our own recycling technology.

Solar Energy--General

We are subject to certain state and federal regulations applicable to solar
and battery storage providers and sellers of electricity. To operate our
systems, we enter into standard interconnection agreements with applicable
utilities. Sales of electricity and non-sale equipment leases by third
parties, such as our leases and PPAs, have faced regulatory challenges in some
states and jurisdictions.

Solar Energy--Net Metering

Most states in the U.S. make net energy metering, or net metering, available
to solar customers. Net metering typically allows solar customers to
interconnect their solar energy systems to the utility grid and offset their
utility electricity purchases by receiving a bill credit for excess energy
generated by their solar energy system that is exported to the grid. In
certain jurisdictions, regulators or utilities have reduced or eliminated the
benefit available under net metering or have proposed to do so.

Competition

Automotive

The worldwide automotive market is highly competitive and we expect it will
become even more competitive in the future as a significant and growing number
of established and new automobile manufacturers, as well as other companies,
have entered, or are reported to have plans to enter the electric vehicle
market.

We believe that our vehicles compete in the market based on both their
traditional segment classification as well as their propulsion technology. For
example, Cybertruck competes with other pickup trucks, Model S and Model X
compete primarily with premium sedans and premium SUVs and Model 3 and Model Y
compete with small to medium-sized sedans and compact SUVs, which are
extremely competitive markets. Competing products typically include internal
combustion vehicles from more established automobile manufacturers; however,
many established and new automobile manufacturers have entered or have
announced plans to enter the market for electric and other alternative fuel
vehicles. Overall, we believe these announcements and vehicle introductions,
including the introduction of electric vehicles into rental car company
fleets, promote the development of the electric vehicle market by highlighting
the attractiveness of electric vehicles relative to the internal combustion
vehicle. Many major automobile manufacturers have electric vehicles available
today in major markets including the U.S., China and Europe, and other current
and prospective automobile manufacturers are also developing electric
vehicles. In addition, several manufacturers offer hybrid vehicles, including
plug-in versions.

11

* * *

Table of Contents

We believe that there is also increasing competition for our vehicle offerings
as a platform for delivering self-driving technologies, charging solutions and
other features and services, and we expect to compete in this developing
market through continued progress on our Autopilot, FSD and neural network
capabilities, Supercharger network and our infotainment offerings.

Energy Generation and Storage

Energy Storage Systems

The market for energy storage products is also highly competitive, and both
established and emerging companies have introduced products that are similar
to our product portfolio or that are alternatives to the elements of our
systems. We compete with these companies based on price, energy density and
efficiency. We believe that the specifications and features of our products,
our strong brand and the modular, scalable nature of our energy storage
products give us a competitive advantage in our markets.

Solar Energy Systems

The primary competitors to our solar energy business are the traditional local
utility companies that supply energy to our potential customers. We compete
with these traditional utility companies primarily based on price and the ease
by which customers can switch to electricity generated by our solar energy
systems. We also compete with solar energy companies that provide products and
services similar to ours. Many solar energy companies only install solar
energy systems, while others only provide financing for these installations.
We believe we have a significant expansion opportunity with our offerings and
that the regulatory environment is increasingly conducive to the adoption of
renewable energy systems.

Intellectual Property

We place a strong emphasis on our innovative approach and proprietary designs
which bring intrinsic value and uniqueness to our product portfolio. As part
of our business, we seek to protect the underlying intellectual property
rights of these innovations and designs such as with respect to patents,
trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidential information and other
measures, including through employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements
and other contractual arrangements. For example, we place a high priority on
obtaining patents to provide the broadest and strongest possible protection to
enable our freedom to operate our innovations and designs across all of our
products and technologies as well as to protect and defend our product
portfolio. We have also adopted a patent policy in which we irrevocably
pledged that we will not initiate a lawsuit against any party for infringing
our patents through activity relating to electric vehicles or related
equipment for so long as such party is acting in good faith. We made this
pledge in order to encourage the advancement of a common, rapidly-evolving
platform for electric vehicles, thereby benefiting ourselves, other companies
making electric vehicles and the world.

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) and Human Capital Resources

ESG

The very purpose of Tesla's existence is to accelerate the world's transition
to sustainable energy. We believe the world cannot reduce carbon emissions
without addressing both energy generation and consumption, and we are
designing and manufacturing a complete energy and transportation ecosystem to
achieve this goal. As we expand, we are building each new factory to be more
efficient and sustainably designed than the previous one, including with
respect to per-unit waste reduction and resource consumption, including water
and energy usage. We are focused on further enhancing sustainability of
operations outside of our direct control, including reducing the carbon
footprint of our supply chain.

We are committed to sourcing only responsibly produced materials, and our
suppliers are required to provide evidence of management systems that ensure
social, environmental and sustainability best practices in their own
operations, as well as to demonstrate a commitment to responsible sourcing
into their supply chains. We have a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to
child or forced labor and human trafficking by our suppliers and we look to
the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development Due Diligence
Guidelines to inform our process and use feedback from our internal and
external stakeholders to find ways to continually improve. We are also driving
safety in our own factories by focusing on worker engagement. Our incidents
per vehicle continue to drop even as our production volumes increase. We also
strive to be an employer of choice by offering compelling, impactful jobs with
best in-industry benefits.

12

* * *

Table of Contents

We believe that sound corporate governance is critical to helping us achieve
our goals, including with respect to ESG. We continue to evolve a governance
framework that exercises appropriate oversight of responsibilities at all
levels throughout the company and manages its affairs consistent with high
principles of business ethics. Our ESG Sustainability Council is made up of
leaders from across our company, and regularly presents to our Board of
Directors, which oversees our ESG impacts, initiatives and priorities.

Human Capital Resources

A competitive edge for Tesla is its ability to attract and retain high quality
employees. During the past year, Tesla made substantial investments in its
workforce, further strengthening its standing as one of the most desirable and
innovative companies to work for. As of December 31, 2023, our employee
headcount worldwide was 140,473.

We have created an environment that fosters growth opportunities, and as of
this report, nearly two-thirds (65%) of our managers were promoted from an
internal, non-manager position, and 43% of our management employees have been
with Tesla for more than five years. Tesla's growth of 35% over the past two
years has offered internal career development to our employees as well as the
ability to make a meaningful contribution to a sustainable future.

We are able to retain our employees, in part, not only because employees can
enjoy ownership in Tesla through stock (of which 89% have been given the
opportunity to), but because we also provide them with excellent health
benefits such as free counseling, paid parental leave, paid time off and zero-
premium medical plan options that are made available on the first day of
employment.

We recognize the positive impact that leaders can have on their teams and
offer fundamental skills training and continuous development to all leaders
through various programs globally.

We don't stop there. Tesla has several other programs strategically designed
to increase paths for greater career opportunity such as:

  

•Technician Trainee (Service) - The Tesla Technician Trainee Program provides
on-the-job automotive maintenance training at Tesla, resulting in an industry
certification. Targeted at individuals with limited experience, whether in
industry or vocational schools, the program prepares trainees for employment
as technicians. In 2023, we hired over 1,900 Technician Trainees across the
U.S., Germany and China.

  

•START (Manufacturing and Service) - Tesla START is an intensive training
program that complements the Technician Trainee program and equips individuals
with the skills needed for a successful technician role at Tesla. We have
partnered with colleges and technical academies to launch Tesla START in the
U.S., United Kingdom and Germany. In 2023, we hired over 350 trainees for
manufacturing and service roles through this program, providing an opportunity
to transition into full-time employment.

  

•Internships - Annually, Tesla hires over 6,000 university and college
students from around the world. We recruit from diverse student organizations
and campuses, seeking top talent passionate about our mission. Our interns
engage in meaningful work from day one, and we often offer them full-time
positions post-internship.

  

•Military Fellowship and Transition Programs - The Military Fellowship and
Transition Programs are designed to offer exiting military service members in
the U.S. and Europe with career guidance on transitioning into the civil
workforce. We partner with the career transition services of European Defence
Ministries across five countries, as well as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's
Hire our Heroes. These programs aim to convert high-performing individuals to
full-time roles and create a veteran talent pipeline.

  

•Apprenticeships - Tesla Apprenticeships are offered globally, providing
academic and on-the-job training to prepare specialists in skilled trades.
Apprentices will complete between one to four years of on-the-job training.
Apprentice programs have seen skilled trade hires across the U.S., Australia,
Hong Kong, Korea and Germany.

  

•Manufacturing Development Program - Tesla's manufacturing pathway program is
designed to provide graduating high school seniors with the financial
resources, coursework and experience they need to start a successful
manufacturing career at Tesla. We hired 373 graduates through this program in
2023, and our goal in 2024 is grow this program to over 600 students annually
across our Fremont Factory, Gigafactory Nevada, Gigafactory Texas and
Gigafactory New York.

  

13

* * *

Table of Contents

•Engineering Development Program - Launched in January 2024, this program
targets recent college and university graduates for specialized engineering
fields. In collaboration with Austin Community College, the program educates
early-career engineers in controls engineering, enhancing their knowledge of
high-demand technologies for U.S. manufacturing.

We will continue to expand the opportunities for our employees to add skills
and develop professionally with a new Employee Educational Assistance Program
launching in the U.S. in the spring of 2024 to help employees pursue select
certificates or degrees. With virtual, self-paced education options available,
employees can pursue a new path or expand their knowledge while continuing to
grow their career.

At Tesla, our employees show up passionate about making a difference in the
world and for each other. We remain unwavering in our demand that our
factories, offices, stores and service centers are places where our employees
feel respected and appreciated. Our policies are designed to promote fairness
and respect for everyone. We hire, evaluate and promote employees based on
their skills and performance. Everyone is expected to be trustworthy,
demonstrate excellence in their performance and collaborate with others. With
this in mind, we will not tolerate certain behaviors. These include
harassment, retaliation, violence, intimidation and discrimination of any kind
on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual
orientation, gender identity, gender expression, age, disability or veteran
status.

Anti-harassment training is conducted on day one of new hire orientation for
all employees and reoccurring for leaders. In addition, we run various
leadership development programs throughout the year aimed at enhancing
leaders' skills, and in particular, helping them to understand how to
appropriately respond to and address employee concerns.

Employees are encouraged to speak up both in regard to misconduct and safety
concerns and can do so by contacting the integrity line, submitting concerns
through our Take Charge process, or notifying their Human Resource Partner or
any member of management. Concerns are reviewed in accordance with established
protocols by investigators with expertise, who also review for trends and
outcomes for remediation and appropriate controls. Responding to questions
timely is key so Human Resource Partners for each functional area are visible
throughout facilities and are actively involved in driving culture and
engagement alongside business leaders.

Available Information

We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including our
Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current
Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. In
addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports,
proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically. Our website is located at www.tesla.com, and our reports,
amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made
available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at ir.tesla.com
as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such
information with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the
other information set forth in this report, which could materially affect our
business, financial condition and future results. The risks described below
are not the only risks facing our company. Risks and uncertainties not
currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may
materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating
results.

Risks Related to Our Ability to Grow Our Business

We may experience delays in launching and ramping the production of our
products and features, or we may be unable to control our manufacturing costs.

We have previously experienced and may in the future experience launch and
production ramp delays for new products and features. For example, we
encountered unanticipated supplier issues that led to delays during the
initial ramp of our first Model X and experienced challenges with a supplier
and with ramping full automation for certain of our initial Model 3
manufacturing processes. In addition, we may introduce in the future new or
unique manufacturing processes and design features for our products. As we
expand our vehicle offerings and global footprint, there is no guarantee that
we will be able to successfully and timely introduce and scale such processes
or features.

14

* * *

Table of Contents

In particular, our future business depends in large part on increasing the
production of mass-market vehicles. In order to be successful, we will need to
implement, maintain and ramp efficient and cost-effective manufacturing
capabilities, processes and supply chains and achieve the design tolerances,
high quality and output rates we have planned at our manufacturing facilities
in California, Nevada, Texas, China, Germany and any future sites such as
Mexico. We will also need to hire, train and compensate skilled employees to
operate these facilities. Bottlenecks and other unexpected challenges such as
those we experienced in the past may arise during our production ramps, and we
must address them promptly while continuing to improve manufacturing processes
and reducing costs. If we are not successful in achieving these goals, we
could face delays in establishing and/or sustaining our product ramps or be
unable to meet our related cost and profitability targets.

We have experienced, and may also experience similar future delays in
launching and/or ramping production of our energy storage products and Solar
Roof; new product versions or variants; new vehicles; and future features and
services based on artificial intelligence. Likewise, we may encounter delays
with the design, construction and regulatory or other approvals necessary to
build and bring online future manufacturing facilities and products.

Any delay or other complication in ramping the production of our current
products or the development, manufacture, launch and production ramp of our
future products, features and services, or in doing so cost-effectively and
with high quality, may harm our brand, business, prospects, financial
condition and operating results.

Our suppliers may fail to deliver components according to schedules, prices,
quality and volumes that are acceptable to us, or we may be unable to manage
these components effectively.

Our products contain thousands of parts purchased globally from hundreds of
suppliers, including single-source direct suppliers, which exposes us to
multiple potential sources of component shortages. Unexpected changes in
business conditions, materials pricing, including inflation of raw material
costs, labor issues, wars, trade policies, natural disasters, health epidemics
such as the global COVID-19 pandemic, trade and shipping disruptions, port
congestions, cyberattacks and other factors beyond our or our suppliers'
control could also affect these suppliers' ability to deliver components to us
or to remain solvent and operational. For example, a global shortage of
semiconductors beginning in early 2021 has caused challenges in the
manufacturing industry and impacted our supply chain and production.
Additionally, if our suppliers do not accurately forecast and effectively
allocate production or if they are not willing to allocate sufficient
production to us, or face other challenges such as insolvency, it may reduce
our access to components and require us to search for new suppliers. The
unavailability of any component or supplier could result in production delays,
idle manufacturing facilities, product design changes and loss of access to
important technology and tools for producing and supporting our products, as
well as impact our capacity expansion and our ability to fulfill our
obligations under customer contracts. Moreover, significant increases in our
production or product design changes by us have required and may in the future
require us to procure additional components in a short amount of time. We have
faced in the past, and may face suppliers who are unwilling or unable to
sustainably meet our timelines or our cost, quality and volume needs, which
may increase our costs or require us to replace them with other sources.
Finally, as we construct new manufacturing facilities and add production lines
to existing facilities, we may experience issues in correspondingly increasing
the level of localized procurement at those facilities. While we believe that
we will be able to secure additional or alternate sources or develop our own
replacements for most of our components, there is no assurance that we will be
able to do so quickly or at all. Additionally, we may be unsuccessful in our
continuous efforts to negotiate with existing suppliers to obtain cost
reductions and avoid unfavorable changes to terms, source less expensive
suppliers for certain parts and redesign certain parts to make them less
expensive to produce, especially in the case of increases in materials
pricing. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, prospects, financial
condition and operating results.

As the scale of our vehicle production increases, we will also need to
accurately forecast, purchase, warehouse and transport components at high
volumes to our manufacturing facilities and servicing locations
internationally. If we are unable to accurately match the timing and
quantities of component purchases to our actual needs or successfully
implement automation, inventory management and other systems to accommodate
the increased complexity in our supply chain and parts management, we may
incur unexpected production disruption, storage, transportation and write-off
costs, which may harm our business and operating results.

We may be unable to meet our projected construction timelines, costs and
production ramps at new factories, or we may experience difficulties in
generating and maintaining demand for products manufactured there.

Our ability to increase production of our vehicles on a sustained basis, make
them affordable globally by accessing local supply chains and workforces and
streamline delivery logistics is dependent on the construction and ramp of our
current and future factories. The construction of and commencement and ramp of
production at these factories are subject

15

* * *

Table of Contents

to a number of uncertainties inherent in all new manufacturing operations,
including ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements, procurement and
maintenance of construction, environmental and operational licenses and
approvals for additional expansion, supply chain constraints, hiring, training
and retention of qualified employees and the pace of bringing production
equipment and processes online with the capability to manufacture high-quality
units at scale. Moreover, we will have to establish and ramp production of our
proprietary battery cells and packs at our new factories, and we additionally
intend to incorporate sequential design and manufacturing changes into
vehicles manufactured at each new factory. If we experience any issues or
delays in meeting our projected timelines, costs, capital efficiency and
production capacity for our new factories, expanding and managing teams to
implement iterative design and production changes there, maintaining and
complying with the terms of any debt financing that we obtain to fund them or
generating and maintaining demand for the vehicles we manufacture there, our
business, prospects, operating results and financial condition may be harmed.

We may be unable to grow our global product sales, delivery and installation
capabilities and our servicing and vehicle charging networks, or we may be
unable to accurately project and effectively manage our growth.

Our success will depend on our ability to continue to expand our sales
capabilities. We are targeting a global mass demographic with a broad range of
potential customers, in which we have relatively limited experience projecting
demand and pricing our products. We currently produce numerous international
variants at a limited number of factories, and if our specific demand
expectations for these variants prove inaccurate, we may not be able to timely
generate deliveries matched to the vehicles that we produce in the same
timeframe or that are commensurate with the size of our operations in a given
region. Likewise, as we develop and grow our energy products and services
worldwide, our success will depend on our ability to correctly forecast demand
in various markets.

Because we do not have independent dealer networks, we are responsible for
delivering all of our vehicles to our customers. As our production volumes
continue to grow, we have faced in the past, and may face challenges with
deliveries at increasing volumes, particularly in international markets
requiring significant transit times. We have also deployed a number of
delivery models, such as deliveries to customers' homes and workplaces and
touchless deliveries, but there is no guarantee that such models will be
scalable or be accepted globally. Likewise, as we ramp our energy products, we
are working to substantially increase our production and installation
capabilities. If we experience production delays or inaccurately forecast
demand, our business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed.

Moreover, because of our unique expertise with our vehicles, we recommend that
our vehicles be serviced by us or by certain authorized professionals. If we
experience delays in adding servicing capacity or servicing our vehicles
efficiently, or experience unforeseen issues with the reliability of our
vehicles, particularly higher-volume additions to our fleet such as Model 3
and Model Y, it could overburden our servicing capabilities and parts
inventory. Similarly, the increasing number of Tesla vehicles also requires us
to continue to rapidly increase the number of our Supercharger stations and
connectors throughout the world.

There is no assurance that we will be able to ramp our business to meet our
sales, delivery, installation, servicing and vehicle charging targets
globally, that our projections on which such targets are based will prove
accurate or that the pace of growth or coverage of our customer infrastructure
network will meet customer expectations. These plans require significant cash
investments and management resources and there is no guarantee that they will
generate additional sales or installations of our products, or that we will be
able to avoid cost overruns or be able to hire additional personnel to support
them. As we expand, we will also need to ensure our compliance with regulatory
requirements in various jurisdictions applicable to the sale, installation and
servicing of our products, the sale or dispatch of electricity related to our
energy products and the operation of Superchargers. If we fail to manage our
growth effectively, it may harm our brand, business, prospects, financial
condition and operating results.

We will need to maintain and significantly grow our access to battery cells,
including through the development and manufacture of our own cells, and
control our related costs.

We are dependent on the continued supply of lithium-ion battery cells for our
vehicles and energy storage products, and we will require substantially more
cells to grow our business according to our plans. Currently, we rely on
suppliers such as Panasonic and Contemporary Amperex Technology Co. Limited
(CATL) for these cells. We have to date fully qualified only a very limited
number of such suppliers and have limited flexibility in changing suppliers.
Any disruption in the supply of battery cells from our suppliers could limit
production of our vehicles and energy storage products. In the long term, we
intend to supplement cells from our suppliers with cells manufactured by us,
which we believe will be more efficient, manufacturable at greater volumes and
more cost-effective than currently available cells. However, our efforts to
develop and manufacture such battery cells have required, and may continue to
require, significant investments, and there can be no assurance that we will
be able to achieve these targets in the timeframes that we have planned or at
all. If we are

16

* * *

Table of Contents

unable to do so, we may have to curtail our planned vehicle and energy storage
product production or procure additional cells from suppliers at potentially
greater costs, either of which may harm our business and operating results.

In addition, the cost and mass production of battery cells, whether
manufactured by our suppliers or by us, depends in part upon the prices and
availability of raw materials such as lithium, nickel, cobalt and/or other
metals. The prices for these materials fluctuate and their available supply
may be unstable, depending on market conditions and global demand for these
materials. For example, as a result of increased global production of electric
vehicles and energy storage products, suppliers of these raw materials may be
unable to meet our volume needs. Additionally, our suppliers may not be
willing or able to reliably meet our timelines or our cost and quality needs,
which may require us to replace them with other sources. Any reduced
availability of these materials may impact our access to cells and our growth,
and any increases in their prices may reduce our profitability if we cannot
recoup such costs through increased prices. Moreover, our inability to meet
demand and any product price increases may harm our brand, growth, prospects
and operating results.

Our future growth and success are dependent upon consumers' demand for
electric vehicles and specifically our vehicles in an automotive industry that
is generally competitive, cyclical and volatile.

Though we continue to see increased interest and adoption of electric
vehicles, if the market for electric vehicles in general and Tesla vehicles in
particular does not develop as we expect, develops more slowly than we expect,
or if demand for our vehicles decreases in our markets or our vehicles compete
with each other, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating
results may be harmed.

In addition, electric vehicles still constitute a small percentage of overall
vehicle sales. As a result, the market for our vehicles could be negatively
affected by numerous factors, such as:

•perceptions about electric vehicle features, quality, safety, performance and
cost;

•perceptions about the limited range over which electric vehicles may be
driven on a single battery charge, and access to charging facilities;

•competition, including from other types of alternative fuel vehicles, plug-in
hybrid electric vehicles and high fuel-economy internal combustion engine
vehicles;

•volatility in the cost of oil, gasoline and energy;

•government regulations and economic incentives and conditions; and

•concerns about our future viability.

  

The target demographics for our vehicles are highly competitive. Sales of
vehicles in the automotive industry tend to be cyclical in many markets, which
may expose us to further volatility. We also cannot predict the duration or
direction of current global trends or their sustained impact on consumer
demand. Ultimately, we continue to monitor macroeconomic conditions to remain
flexible and to optimize and evolve our business as appropriate, and attempt
to accurately project demand and infrastructure requirements globally and
deploy our production, workforce and other resources accordingly. Rising
interest rates may lead to consumers to increasingly pull back spending,
including on our products, which may harm our demand, business and operating
results. If we experience unfavorable global market conditions, or if we
cannot or do not maintain operations at a scope that is commensurate with such
conditions or are later required to or choose to suspend such operations
again, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results may
be harmed.

We face strong competition for our products and services from a growing list
of established and new competitors.

The worldwide automotive market is highly competitive today and we expect it
will become even more so in the future. A significant and growing number of
established and new automobile manufacturers, as well as other companies, have
entered, or are reported to have plans to enter, the market for electric and
other alternative fuel vehicles, including hybrid, plug-in hybrid and fully
electric vehicles, as well as the market for self-driving technology and other
vehicle applications and software platforms. In some cases, our competitors
offer or will offer electric vehicles in important markets such as China and
Europe, and/or have announced an intention to produce electric vehicles
exclusively at some point in the future. In addition, certain government and
economic incentives which provide benefits to manufacturers who assemble
domestically or have local suppliers, may provide a greater benefit to our
competitors, which could negatively impact our profitability. Many of our
competitors have significantly more or better-established resources than we do
to devote to the design, development, manufacturing, distribution, promotion,
sale and support of their products. Increased competition could result in our
lower vehicle unit sales, price reductions, revenue shortfalls, loss of
customers and loss of market share, which may harm our business, financial
condition and operating results.

17

* * *

Table of Contents

We also face competition in our energy generation and storage business from
other manufacturers, developers, installers and service providers of competing
energy technologies, as well as from large utilities. Decreases in the retail
or wholesale prices of electricity from utilities or other renewable energy
sources could make our products less attractive to customers and lead to an
increased rate of customer defaults.

Risks Related to Our Operations

  

We may experience issues with lithium-ion cells or other components
manufactured at our Gigafactories, which may harm the production and
profitability of our vehicle and energy storage products.

  

Our plan to grow the volume and profitability of our vehicles and energy
storage products depends on significant lithium-ion battery cell production,
including by our partner Panasonic at Gigafactory Nevada. We also produce
several vehicle components at our Gigafactories, such as battery modules and
packs and drive units, and manufacture energy storage products. If we are
unable to or otherwise do not maintain and grow our respective operations, or
if we are unable to do so cost-effectively or hire and retain highly-skilled
personnel there, our ability to manufacture our products profitably would be
limited, which may harm our business and operating results.

  

Finally, the high volumes of lithium-ion cells and battery modules and packs
manufactured by us and by our suppliers are stored and recycled at our various
facilities. Any mishandling of these products may cause disruption to the
operation of such facilities. While we have implemented safety procedures
related to the handling of the cells, there can be no assurance that a safety
issue or fire related to the cells would not disrupt our operations. Any such
disruptions or issues may harm our brand and business.

  

We face risks associated with maintaining and expanding our international
operations, including unfavorable and uncertain regulatory, political,
economic, tax and labor conditions.

  

We are subject to legal and regulatory requirements, political uncertainty and
social, environmental and economic conditions in numerous jurisdictions,
including markets in which we generate significant sales, over which we have
little control and which are inherently unpredictable. Our operations in such
jurisdictions, particularly as a company based in the U.S., create risks
relating to conforming our products to regulatory and safety requirements and
charging and other electric infrastructures; organizing local operating
entities; establishing, staffing and managing foreign business locations;
attracting local customers; navigating foreign government taxes, regulations
and permit requirements; enforceability of our contractual rights; trade
restrictions, customs regulations, tariffs and price or exchange controls; and
preferences in foreign nations for domestically manufactured products. For
example, we monitor tax legislation changes on a global basis, including
changes arising as a result of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development's multi-jurisdictional plan of action to address base erosion and
profit shifting. Such conditions may increase our costs, impact our ability to
sell our products and require significant management attention, and may harm
our business if we are unable to manage them effectively.

  

Our business may suffer if our products or features contain defects, fail to
perform as expected or take longer than expected to become fully functional.

  

If our products contain design or manufacturing defects, whether relating to
our software or hardware, that cause them not to perform as designed or
intended or that require repair, or certain features of our vehicles such as
new Autopilot or FSD Capability features take longer than expected to become
enabled, are legally restricted or become subject to onerous regulation, our
ability to develop, market and sell our products and services may be harmed,
and we may experience delivery delays, product recalls, allegations of product
liability, breach of warranty and related consumer protection claims and
significant warranty and other expenses. While we are continuously working to
develop and improve our products' capability and performance, there is no
guarantee that any incremental changes in the specific software or equipment
we deploy in our vehicles over time will not result in initial functional
disparities from prior iterations or will perform as forecast in the timeframe
we anticipate, or at all. Although we attempt to remedy any issues we observe
in our products as effectively and rapidly as possible, such efforts may not
be timely, may hamper production or may not completely satisfy our customers.
We have performed, and continue to perform, extensive internal testing on our
products and features, though, like the rest of the industry, we currently
have a limited frame of reference by which to evaluate certain aspects of
their long-term quality, reliability, durability and performance
characteristics, including exposure to or consequence of external attacks.
While we attempt to identify and address or remedy defects we identify pre-
production and sale, there may be latent defects that we may be unable to
detect or control for in our products, and thereby address, prior to their
sale to or installation for customers.

18

* * *

Table of Contents

We may be required to defend or insure against product liability claims.

The automobile industry generally experiences significant product liability
claims, and as such we face the risk of such claims in the event our vehicles
do not perform or are claimed to not have performed as expected. As is true
for other automakers, our vehicles have been involved and we expect in the
future will be involved in accidents resulting in death or personal injury,
and such accidents where Autopilot, Enhanced Autopilot or FSD Capability
features are engaged are the subject of significant public attention,
especially in light of NHTSA's Standing General Order requiring reports
regarding crashes involving vehicles with advanced driver assistance systems.
We have experienced, and we expect to continue to face, claims and regulatory
scrutiny arising from or related to misuse or claimed failures or alleged
misrepresentations of such new technologies that we are pioneering. In
addition, the battery packs that we produce make use of lithium-ion cells. On
rare occasions, lithium-ion cells can rapidly release the energy they contain
by venting smoke and flames in a manner that can ignite nearby materials as
well as other lithium-ion cells. While we have designed our battery packs to
passively contain any single cell's release of energy without spreading to
neighboring cells, there can be no assurance that a field or testing failure
of our vehicles or other battery packs that we produce will not occur, in
particular due to a high-speed crash. Likewise, as our solar energy systems
and energy storage products generate and store electricity, they have the
potential to fail or cause injury to people or property. Any product liability
claim may subject us to lawsuits and substantial monetary damages, product
recalls or redesign efforts, and even a meritless claim may require us to
defend it, all of which may generate negative publicity and be expensive and
time-consuming. In most jurisdictions, we generally self-insure against the
risk of product liability claims for vehicle exposure, meaning that any
product liability claims will likely have to be paid from company funds and
not by insurance.

We will need to maintain public credibility and confidence in our long-term
business prospects in order to succeed.

In order to maintain and grow our business, we must maintain credibility and
confidence among customers, suppliers, analysts, investors, ratings agencies
and other parties in our long-term financial viability and business prospects.
Maintaining such confidence may be challenging due to our limited operating
history relative to established competitors; customer unfamiliarity with our
products; any delays we may experience in scaling manufacturing, delivery and
service operations to meet demand; competition and uncertainty regarding the
future of electric vehicles or our other products and services; our quarterly
production and sales performance compared with market expectations; and other
factors including those over which we have no control. In particular, Tesla's
products, business, results of operations, and statements and actions of Tesla
and its management are subject to significant amounts of commentary by a range
of third parties. Such attention can include criticism, which may be
exaggerated or unfounded, such as speculation regarding the sufficiency or
stability of our management team. Any such negative perceptions, whether
caused by us or not, may harm our business and make it more difficult to raise
additional funds if needed.

We may be unable to effectively grow, or manage the compliance, residual
value, financing and credit risks related to, our various financing programs.

We offer financing arrangements for our vehicles in North America, Europe and
Asia primarily ourselves and through various financial institutions. We also
currently offer vehicle financing arrangements directly through our local
subsidiaries in certain markets. Depending on the country, such arrangements
are available for specified models and may include operating leases directly
with us under which we typically receive only a very small portion of the
total vehicle purchase price at the time of lease, followed by a stream of
payments over the term of the lease. We have also offered various arrangements
for customers of our solar energy systems whereby they pay us a fixed payment
to lease or finance the purchase of such systems or purchase electricity
generated by them. If we do not successfully monitor and comply with
applicable national, state and/or local financial regulations and consumer
protection laws governing these transactions, we may become subject to
enforcement actions or penalties.

The profitability of any directly-leased vehicles returned to us at the end of
their leases depends on our ability to accurately project our vehicles'
residual values at the outset of the leases, and such values may fluctuate
prior to the end of their terms depending on various factors such as supply
and demand of our used vehicles, economic cycles and the pricing of new
vehicles. We have made in the past and may make in the future certain
adjustments to our prices from time to time in the ordinary course of
business, which may impact the residual values of our vehicles and reduce the
profitability of our vehicle leasing program. The funding and growth of this
program also rely on our ability to secure adequate financing and/or business
partners. If we are unable to adequately fund our leasing program through
internal funds, partners or other financing sources, and compelling
alternative financing programs are not available for our customers who may
expect or need such options, we may be unable to grow our vehicle deliveries.
Furthermore, if our vehicle leasing business grows substantially, our business
may suffer if we cannot effectively manage the resulting greater levels of
residual risk.

19

* * *

Table of Contents

Similarly, we have provided resale value guarantees to vehicle customers and
partners for certain financing programs, under which such counterparties may
sell their vehicles back to us at certain points in time at pre-determined
amounts. However, actual resale values are subject to fluctuations over the
term of the financing arrangements, such as from the vehicle pricing changes
discussed above. If the actual resale values of any vehicles resold or
returned to us pursuant to these programs are materially lower than the pre-
determined amounts we have offered, our financial condition and operating
results may be harmed.

Finally, our vehicle and solar energy system financing programs and our energy
storage sales programs also expose us to customer credit risk. In the event of
a widespread economic downturn or other catastrophic event, our customers may
be unable or unwilling to satisfy their payment obligations to us on a timely
basis or at all. If a significant number of our customers default, we may
incur substantial credit losses and/or impairment charges with respect to the
underlying assets.

We must manage ongoing obligations under our agreement with the Research
Foundation for the State University of New York relating to our Gigafactory
New York.

We are party to an operating lease and a research and development agreement
through the State University of New York (the "SUNY Foundation"). These
agreements provide for the construction and use of our Gigafactory New York,
which we have primarily used for the development and production of our Solar
Roof and other solar products and components, energy storage components and
Supercharger components, and for other lessor-approved functions. Under this
agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as
well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in
Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital,
operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New
York during a period that was initially 10 years beginning April 30, 2018. As
of December 31, 2023, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to
investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo. While we
expect to have and grow significant operations at Gigafactory New York and the
surrounding Buffalo area, any failure by us in any year over the course of the
term of the agreement to meet all applicable future obligations may result in
our obligation to pay a "program payment" of $41 million to the SUNY
Foundation for such year, the termination of our lease at Gigafactory New York
which may require us to pay additional penalties, and/or the need to adjust
certain of our operations. Any of the foregoing events may harm our business,
financial condition and operating results.

If we are unable to attract, hire and retain key employees and qualified
personnel, our ability to compete may be harmed.

The loss of the services of any of our key employees or any significant
portion of our workforce could disrupt our operations or delay the
development, introduction and ramp of our products and services. In
particular, we are highly dependent on the services of Elon Musk, Technoking
of Tesla and our Chief Executive Officer. None of our key employees is bound
by an employment agreement for any specific term and we may not be able to
successfully attract and retain senior leadership necessary to grow our
business. Our future success also depends upon our ability to attract, hire
and retain a large number of engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and
delivery, service, installation, technology and support personnel, especially
to support our planned high-volume product sales, market and geographical
expansion and technological innovations. If we are not successful in managing
these risks, our business, financial condition and operating results may be
harmed.

Employees may leave Tesla or choose other employers over Tesla due to various
factors, such as a very competitive labor market for talented individuals with
automotive or technology experience, or any negative publicity related to us.
In regions where we have or will have operations, particularly significant
engineering and manufacturing centers, there is strong competition for
individuals with skillsets needed for our business, including specialized
knowledge of electric vehicles, engineering and electrical and building
construction expertise. We also compete with both mature and prosperous
companies that have far greater financial resources than we do and start-ups
and emerging companies that promise short-term growth opportunities.

Finally, our compensation philosophy for all of our personnel reflects our
startup origins, with an emphasis on equity-based awards and benefits in order
to closely align their incentives with the long-term interests of our
stockholders. We periodically seek and obtain approval from our stockholders
for future increases to the number of awards available under our equity
incentive and employee stock purchase plans. If we are unable to obtain the
requisite stockholder approvals for such future increases, we may have to
expend additional cash to compensate our employees and our ability to retain
and hire qualified personnel may be harmed.

20

* * *

Table of Contents

We are highly dependent on the services of Elon Musk, Technoking of Tesla and
our Chief Executive Officer.

We are highly dependent on the services of Elon Musk, Technoking of Tesla and
our Chief Executive Officer. Although Mr. Musk spends significant time with
Tesla and is highly active in our management, he does not devote his full time
and attention to Tesla. Mr. Musk also currently serves as Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Technical Officer of Space Exploration Technologies Corp., a
developer and manufacturer of space launch vehicles, Chairman and Chief
Technical Officer of X Corp., a social media company, and is involved in other
emerging technology ventures.

Our information technology systems or data, or those of our service providers
or customers or users could be subject to cyber-attacks or other security
incidents, which could result in data breaches, intellectual property theft,
claims, litigation, regulatory investigations, significant liability,
reputational damage and other adverse consequences.

We continue to expand our information technology systems as our operations
grow, such as product data management, procurement, inventory management,
production planning and execution, sales, service and logistics, dealer
management, financial, tax and regulatory compliance systems. This includes
the implementation of new internally developed systems and the deployment of
such systems in the U.S. and abroad. While, we maintain information technology
measures designed to protect us against intellectual property theft, data
breaches, sabotage and other external or internal cyber-attacks or
misappropriation, our systems and those of our service providers are
potentially vulnerable to malware, ransomware, viruses, denial-of-service
attacks, phishing attacks, social engineering, computer hacking, unauthorized
access, exploitation of bugs, defects and vulnerabilities, breakdowns, damage,
interruptions, system malfunctions, power outages, terrorism, acts of
vandalism, security breaches, security incidents, inadvertent or intentional
actions by employees or other third parties, and other cyber-attacks.

To the extent any security incident results in unauthorized access or damage
to or acquisition, use, corruption, loss, destruction, alteration or
dissemination of our data, including intellectual property and personal
information, or our products or vehicles, or for it to be believed or reported
that any of these occurred, it could disrupt our business, harm our
reputation, compel us to comply with applicable data breach notification laws,
subject us to time consuming, distracting and expensive litigation, regulatory
investigation and oversight, mandatory corrective action, require us to verify
the correctness of database contents, or otherwise subject us to liability
under laws, regulations and contractual obligations, including those that
protect the privacy and security of personal information. This could result in
increased costs to us and result in significant legal and financial exposure
and/or reputational harm.

We also rely on service providers, and similar incidents relating to their
information technology systems could also have a material adverse effect on
our business. There have been and may continue to be significant supply chain
attacks. Our service providers, including our workforce management software
provider, have been subject to ransomware and other security incidents, and we
cannot guarantee that our or our service providers' systems have not been
breached or that they do not contain exploitable defects, bugs, or
vulnerabilities that could result in a security incident, or other disruption
to, our or our service providers' systems. Our ability to monitor our service
providers' security measures is limited, and, in any event, malicious third
parties may be able to circumvent those security measures.

Further, the implementation, maintenance, segregation and improvement of these
systems require significant management time, support and cost, and there are
inherent risks associated with developing, improving and expanding our core
systems as well as implementing new systems and updating current systems,
including disruptions to the related areas of business operation. These risks
may affect our ability to manage our data and inventory, procure parts or
supplies or manufacture, sell, deliver and service products, adequately
protect our intellectual property or achieve and maintain compliance with, or
realize available benefits under, tax laws and other applicable regulations.

Moreover, if we do not successfully implement, maintain or expand these
systems as planned, our operations may be disrupted, our ability to accurately
and/or timely report our financial results could be impaired and deficiencies
may arise in our internal control over financial reporting, which may impact
our ability to certify our financial results. Moreover, our proprietary
information, including intellectual property and personal information, could
be compromised or misappropriated and our reputation may be adversely
affected. If these systems or their functionality do not operate as we expect
them to, we may be required to expend significant resources to make
corrections or find alternative sources for performing these functions.

21

* * *

Table of Contents

Any unauthorized control or manipulation of our products' systems could result
in loss of confidence in us and our products.

Our products contain complex information technology systems. For example, our
vehicles and energy storage products are designed with built-in data
connectivity to accept and install periodic remote updates from us to improve
or update their functionality. While we have implemented security measures
intended to prevent unauthorized access to our information technology
networks, our products and their systems, malicious entities have reportedly
attempted, and may attempt in the future, to gain unauthorized access to
modify, alter and use such networks, products and systems to gain control of,
or to change, our products' functionality, user interface and performance
characteristics or to gain access to data stored in or generated by our
products. We encourage reporting of potential vulnerabilities in the security
of our products through our security vulnerability reporting policy, and we
aim to remedy any reported and verified vulnerability. However, there can be
no assurance that any vulnerabilities will not be exploited before they can be
identified, or that our remediation efforts are or will be successful.

Any unauthorized access to or control of our products or their systems or any
loss of data could result in legal claims or government investigations. In
addition, regardless of their veracity, reports of unauthorized access to our
products, their systems or data, as well as other factors that may result in
the perception that our products, their systems or data are capable of being
hacked, may harm our brand, prospects and operating results. We have been the
subject of such reports in the past.

Our business may be adversely affected by any disruptions caused by union
activities.

It is not uncommon for employees of certain trades at companies such as ours
to belong to a union, which can result in higher employee costs and increased
risk of work stoppages. Moreover, regulations in some jurisdictions outside of
the U.S. mandate employee participation in industrial collective bargaining
agreements and work councils with certain consultation rights with respect to
the relevant companies' operations. Although we work diligently to provide the
best possible work environment for our employees, they may still decide to
join or seek recognition to form a labor union, or we may be required to
become a union signatory. From time to time, labor unions have engaged in
campaigns to organize certain of our operations, as part of which such unions
have filed unfair labor practice charges against us with the National Labor
Relations Board (the "NLRB"), and they may do so in the future. Any
unfavorable ultimate outcome for Tesla may have a negative impact on the
perception of Tesla's treatment of our employees. Furthermore, we are directly
or indirectly dependent upon companies with unionized work forces, such as
suppliers and trucking and freight companies. Any work stoppages or strikes
organized by such unions could delay the manufacture and sale of our products
and may harm our business and operating results.

We may choose to or be compelled to undertake product recalls or take other
similar actions.

As a manufacturing company, we must manage the risk of product recalls with
respect to our products. Recalls for our vehicles have resulted from various
hardware and software-related safety concerns or non-compliance
determinations. In addition to recalls initiated by us for various causes,
testing of or investigations into our products by government regulators or
industry groups may compel us to initiate product recalls or may result in
negative public perceptions about the safety of our products, even if we
disagree with the defect determination or have data that contradicts it. In
the future, we may voluntarily or involuntarily initiate recalls if any of our
products are determined by us or a regulator to contain a safety defect or be
noncompliant with applicable laws and regulations, such as U.S. Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standards. Such recalls, whether voluntary or involuntary or
caused by systems or components engineered or manufactured by us or our
suppliers, could result in significant expense, supply chain complications and
service burdens, and may harm our brand, business, prospects, financial
condition and operating results.

Our current and future warranty reserves may be insufficient to cover future
warranty claims.

We provide a manufacturer's warranty on all new and used Tesla vehicles we
sell directly to customers. We also provide certain warranties with respect to
the energy generation and storage systems we sell, including on their
installation and maintenance. For components not manufactured by us, we
generally pass through to our customers the applicable manufacturers'
warranties, but may retain some warranty responsibilities for some or all of
the life of such components. As part of our energy generation and storage
system contracts, we may provide the customer with performance guarantees that
guarantee that the underlying system will meet or exceed the minimum energy
generation or other energy performance requirements specified in the contract.
Under these performance guarantees, we generally bear the risk of electricity
production or other performance shortfalls, including in some cases shortfalls
caused by failures in components from third party manufacturers. These risks
are exacerbated in the event such manufacturers cease operations or fail to
honor their warranties.

22

* * *

Table of Contents

If our warranty reserves are inadequate to cover future warranty claims on our
products, our financial condition and operating results may be harmed.
Warranty reserves include our management's best estimates of the projected
costs to repair or to replace items under warranty, which are based on actual
claims incurred to date and an estimate of the nature, frequency and costs of
future claims. Such estimates are inherently uncertain and changes to our
historical or projected experience, especially with respect to products that
we have introduced relatively recently and/or that we expect to produce at
significantly greater volumes than our past products, may cause material
changes to our warranty reserves in the future.

Our insurance coverage strategy may not be adequate to protect us from all
business risks.

We may be subject, in the ordinary course of business, to losses resulting
from products liability, accidents, acts of God and other claims against us,
for which we may have no insurance coverage. As a general matter, we do not
maintain as much insurance coverage as many other companies do, and in some
cases, we do not maintain any at all. Additionally, the policies that we do
have may include significant deductibles or self-insured retentions, policy
limitations and exclusions, and we cannot be certain that our insurance
coverage will be sufficient to cover all future losses or claims against us. A
loss that is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits may require us to pay
substantial amounts, which may harm our financial condition and operating
results.

Our debt agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability
to operate our business.

The terms of certain of our debt facilities contain, and any of our other
future debt agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that may limit our
ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our and/or our
subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur additional debt or create
liens. In addition, under certain circumstances we are required to maintain a
certain amount of liquidity. As a result of these covenants, our ability to
respond to changes in business and economic conditions and engage in
beneficial transactions, including to obtain additional financing as needed,
may be restricted. Furthermore, our failure to comply with our debt covenants
could result in a default under our debt agreements, which could permit the
holders to accelerate our obligation to repay the debt. If any of our debt is
accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay it.

Additional funds may not be available to us when we need or want them.

Our business and our future plans for expansion are capital-intensive, and the
specific timing of cash inflows and outflows may fluctuate substantially from
period to period. We may need or want to raise additional funds through the
issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities or through obtaining
credit from financial institutions to fund, together with our principal
sources of liquidity, the costs of developing and manufacturing our current or
future products, to pay any significant unplanned or accelerated expenses or
for new significant strategic investments, or to refinance our significant
consolidated indebtedness, even if not required to do so by the terms of such
indebtedness. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available to
us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we cannot raise additional
funds when we need them, our financial condition, results of operations,
business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.

We may be negatively impacted by any early obsolescence of our manufacturing
equipment.

We depreciate the cost of our manufacturing equipment over their expected
useful lives. However, product cycles or manufacturing technology may change
periodically, and we may decide to update our products or manufacturing
processes more quickly than expected. Moreover, improvements in engineering
and manufacturing expertise and efficiency may result in our ability to
manufacture our products using less of our currently installed equipment.
Alternatively, as we ramp and mature the production of our products to higher
levels, we may discontinue the use of already installed equipment in favor of
different or additional equipment. The useful life of any equipment that would
be retired early as a result would be shortened, causing the depreciation on
such equipment to be accelerated, and our results of operations may be harmed.

There is no guarantee that we will have sufficient cash flow from our business
to pay our indebtedness or that we will not incur additional indebtedness.

As of December 31, 2023, we and our subsidiaries had outstanding $4.68 billion
in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness (see Note 11, Debt, to the
consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K). Our consolidated indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to
any generally adverse economic and industry conditions. We and our
subsidiaries may, subject to the limitations in the terms of our existing and
future indebtedness, incur additional debt, secure existing or future debt or
recapitalize our debt.

23

* * *

Table of Contents

Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal and interest on our
indebtedness when due, to make payments upon conversion or repurchase demands
with respect to our convertible senior notes or to refinance our indebtedness
as we may need or desire, depends on our future performance, which is subject
to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our
business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future
sufficient to satisfy our obligations under our existing indebtedness and any
future indebtedness we may incur, and to make necessary capital expenditures.
If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one
or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying investments or capital
expenditures, selling assets, refinancing or obtaining additional equity
capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to
refinance existing or future indebtedness will depend on the capital markets
and our financial condition at such time. In addition, our ability to make
payments may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements
governing our future indebtedness. We may not be able to engage in these
activities on desirable terms or at all, which may result in a default on our
existing or future indebtedness and harm our financial condition and operating
results.

We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

We transact business globally in multiple currencies and have foreign currency
risks related to our revenue, costs of revenue, operating expenses and
localized subsidiary debt denominated in currencies other than the U.S.
dollar. To the extent we have significant revenues denominated in such foreign
currencies, any strengthening of the U.S. dollar would tend to reduce our
revenues as measured in U.S. dollars, as we have historically experienced, and
are currently experiencing. In addition, a portion of our costs and expenses
have been, and we anticipate will continue to be, denominated in foreign
currencies. If we do not have fully offsetting revenues in these currencies
and if the value of the U.S. dollar depreciates significantly against these
currencies, our costs as measured in U.S. dollars as a percent of our revenues
will correspondingly increase and our margins will suffer. As a result, our
operating results may be harmed.

We may not be able to adequately protect or defend ourselves against
intellectual property infringement claims, which may be time-consuming and
expensive, or affect the freedom to operate our business.

Our competitors or other third parties may hold or obtain patents, copyrights,
trademarks or other proprietary rights that could prevent, limit or interfere
with our ability to make, use, develop, sell or market our products and
services, which could make it more difficult for us to operate our business.
From time to time, the holders of such intellectual property rights may assert
their rights and urge us to take licenses and/or may bring suits alleging
infringement or misappropriation of such rights, which could result in
substantial costs, negative publicity and management attention, regardless of
merit.

  

In addition, the effective protection for our brands, technologies, and
proprietary information may be limited or unavailable in certain countries,
making it difficult to protect our intellectual property from misappropriation
or infringement. Although we make reasonable efforts to maintain the
confidentiality of our proprietary information, we cannot guarantee that these
actions will deter or prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property.
The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and
confidential information could affect our competitive position.

  

While we endeavor to obtain and protect the intellectual property rights that
we expect will allow us to retain or advance our strategic initiatives in
these circumstances, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
adequately identify and protect the portions of intellectual property that are
strategic to our business, or mitigate the risk of potential suits or other
legal demands by third parties. Accordingly, we may consider the entering into
licensing agreements with respect to such rights, although no assurance can be
given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that
litigation will not occur, and such licenses and associated litigation could
significantly increase our operating expenses. Further, if we are determined
to have or believe there is a high likelihood that we have infringed upon a
third party's intellectual property rights, we may be required to cease
making, selling or incorporating certain components or intellectual property
into the goods and services we offer, to pay substantial damages and/or
license royalties, to redesign our products and services and/or to establish
and maintain alternative branding for our products and services. In the event
that we are required to take one or more such actions, our brand, business,
financial condition and operating results may be harmed.

Increased scrutiny and changing expectations from stakeholders with respect to
the Company's ESG practices may result in additional costs or risks.

Companies across many industries are facing increasing scrutiny related to
their environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. Investor advocacy
groups, certain institutional investors, investment funds and other
influential investors are also increasingly focused on ESG practices and in
recent years have placed increasing importance on the non-financial impacts of
their investments. While our mission is to accelerate the world's transition
to sustainable energy, if our ESG practices do not meet investor or other
industry stakeholder expectations, which continue to evolve, we may incur
additional costs and our brand, ability to attract and retain qualified
employees and business may be harmed.

24

* * *

Table of Contents

Our operations could be adversely affected by events outside of our control,
such as natural disasters, wars or health epidemics.

We may be impacted by natural disasters, wars, health epidemics, weather
conditions, the long-term effects of climate change, power outages or other
events outside of our control. For example, our Fremont Factory and
Gigafactory Nevada are located in seismically active regions in Northern
California and Nevada, and our Gigafactory Shanghai is located in a flood-
prone area. Moreover, the area in which our Gigafactory Texas is located
experienced severe winter storms in the first quarter of 2021 that had a
widespread impact on utilities and transportation. If major disasters such as
earthquakes, floods or other climate-related events occur, or our information
system or communication breaks down or operates improperly, our headquarters
and production facilities may be seriously damaged, or we may have to stop or
delay production and shipment of our products. In addition, the global
COVID-19 pandemic has impacted economic markets, manufacturing operations,
supply chains, employment and consumer behavior in nearly every geographic
region and industry across the world, and we have been, and may in the future
be, adversely affected as a result. Also, the broader consequences in the
current conflict between Russia and Ukraine, which may include further
embargoes, regional instability and geopolitical shifts; airspace bans
relating to certain routes, or strategic decisions to alter certain routes;
and potential retaliatory action by the Russian government against companies,
and the extent of the conflict on our business and operating results cannot be
predicted. We may incur expenses or delays relating to such events outside of
our control, which could have a material adverse impact on our business,
operating results and financial condition.

Risks Related to Government Laws and Regulations

Demand for our products and services may be impacted by the status of
government and economic incentives supporting the development and adoption of
such products.

Government and economic incentives that support the development and adoption
of electric vehicles in the U.S. and abroad, including certain tax exemptions,
tax credits and rebates, may be reduced, eliminated, amended or exhausted from
time to time. For example, previously available incentives favoring electric
vehicles in certain areas have expired or were cancelled or temporarily
unavailable, and in some cases were not eventually replaced or reinstituted,
which may have negatively impacted sales. In addition, certain government and
economic incentives may also be implemented or amended to provide benefits to
manufacturers who assemble domestically, have local suppliers or have other
characteristics that may not apply to Tesla. Such developments could
negatively impact demand for our vehicles, and we and our customers may have
to adjust to them, including through pricing modifications.

In addition, certain governmental rebates, tax credits and other financial
incentives that are currently available with respect to our solar and energy
storage product businesses allow us to lower our costs and encourage customers
to buy our products and investors to invest in our solar financing funds.
However, these incentives may expire when the allocated funding is exhausted,
reduced or terminated as renewable energy adoption rates increase, sometimes
without warning. Likewise, in jurisdictions where net metering is currently
available, our customers receive bill credits from utilities for energy that
their solar energy systems generate and export to the grid in excess of the
electric load they use. The benefit available under net metering has been or
has been proposed to be reduced, altered or eliminated in several
jurisdictions, and has also been contested and may continue to be contested
before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Any reductions or
terminations of such incentives may harm our business, prospects, financial
condition and operating results by making our products less competitive for
customers, increasing our cost of capital and adversely impacting our ability
to attract investment partners and to form new financing funds for our solar
and energy storage assets.

Finally, we and our fund investors claim these U.S. federal tax credits and
certain state incentives in amounts based on independently appraised fair
market values of our solar and energy storage systems. Some governmental
authorities have audited such values and in certain cases have determined that
these values should be lower, and they may do so again in the future. Such
determinations may result in adverse tax consequences and/or our obligation to
make indemnification or other payments to our funds or fund investors.

We are subject to evolving laws and regulations that could impose substantial
costs, legal prohibitions or unfavorable changes upon our operations or
products.

As we grow our manufacturing operations in additional regions, we are or will
be subject to complex environmental, manufacturing, health and safety laws and
regulations at numerous jurisdictional levels in the U.S., China, Germany and
other locations abroad, including laws relating to the use, handling, storage,
recycling, disposal and/or human exposure to hazardous materials, product
material inputs and post-consumer products and with respect to constructing,
expanding and maintaining our facilities. New, or changes in, environmental
and climate change laws, regulations or rules could also lead to increased
costs of compliance, including remediations of any discovered issues, and
changes to our operations, which may be significant, and any failures to
comply could result in significant expenses, delays or fines. In addition, as
we have

25

* * *

Table of Contents

increased our employee headcount and operations, we are and may continue to be
subject to increased scrutiny, including litigation and government
investigations, that we will need to defend against. If we are unable to
successfully defend ourselves in such litigation or government investigations,
it may harm our brand, ability to attract and retain qualified employees,
business and financial condition. We are also subject to laws and regulations
applicable to the supply, manufacture, import, sale, service and performance
of our products both domestically and abroad. For example, in countries
outside of the U.S., we are required to meet standards relating to vehicle
safety, fuel economy and emissions that are often materially different from
equivalent requirements in the U.S., thus resulting in additional investment
into the vehicles and systems to ensure regulatory compliance in all
countries. This process may include official review and certification of our
vehicles by foreign regulatory agencies prior to market entry, as well as
compliance with foreign reporting and recall management systems requirements.

In particular, we offer in our vehicles in certain markets Autopilot and FSD
Capability features that today assist drivers with certain tedious and
potentially dangerous aspects of road travel, but which currently require
drivers to remain fully engaged in the driving operation. We are continuing to
develop our Autopilot and FSD Capability technology. There are a variety of
international, federal and state regulations that may apply to, and may
adversely affect, the design and performance, sale, marketing, registration
and operation of Autopilot and FSD Capability, and future capability,
including full self-driving vehicles that may not be operated by a human
driver. This includes many existing vehicle standards that were not originally
intended to apply to vehicles that may not be operated by a human driver. Such
regulations continue to rapidly change, which increases the likelihood of a
patchwork of complex or conflicting regulations, or may delay, restrict or
prohibit the availability of certain functionalities and vehicle designs,
which could adversely affect our business.

Finally, as a manufacturer, installer and service provider with respect to
solar generation and energy storage systems, a supplier of electricity
generated and stored by certain of the solar energy and energy storage systems
we install for customers, and a provider of grid services through virtual
power plant models, we are impacted by federal, state and local regulations
and policies concerning the import or export of components, electricity
pricing, the interconnection of electricity generation and storage equipment
with the electrical grid and the sale of electricity generated by third party-
owned systems. If regulations and policies are introduced that adversely
impact the import or export of components, or the interconnection, maintenance
or use of our solar and energy storage systems, they could deter potential
customers from purchasing our solar and energy storage products and services,
threaten the economics of our existing contracts and cause us to cease solar
and energy storage system sales and services in the relevant jurisdictions,
which may harm our business, financial condition and operating results.

Any failure by us to comply with a variety of U.S. and international privacy
and consumer protection laws may harm us.

  

Any failure by us or our vendors or other business partners to comply with our
public privacy notice or with federal, state or international privacy, data
protection or security laws or regulations relating to the processing,
collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable
information could result in regulatory or litigation-related actions against
us, legal liability, fines, damages, ongoing audit requirements and other
significant costs. Substantial expenses and operational changes may be
required in connection with maintaining compliance with such laws, and even an
unsuccessful challenge by customers or regulatory authorities of our
activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly
response from and defense by us. In addition, certain privacy laws are still
subject to a high degree of uncertainty as to their interpretation,
application and impact, and may require extensive system and operational
changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs, adversely
impact the cost or attractiveness of the products or services we offer, or
result in adverse publicity and harm our reputation. For example, the General
Data Protection Regulation applies to the processing of personal information
collected from individuals located in the European Union requiring certain
data protection measures when handling, with a significant risk of fines for
noncompliance. Similarly, our North American operations are subject to complex
and changing federal and US state-specific data privacy laws and regulations,
such as the California Consumer Privacy Act which imposes certain legal
obligations on our use and processing of personal information related to
California residents. Finally, additional privacy and cybersecurity laws have
come into effect in China.

  

These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to
jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing requirements may cause us
to incur substantial costs and make enhancements to relevant data practices.
Noncompliance could result in significant penalties or legal liability.

  

In addition to the risks related to general privacy regulation, we may also be
subject to specific vehicle manufacturer obligations relating to
cybersecurity, data privacy and data localization requirements which place
additional risks to our international operations. Risks and penalties could
include ongoing audit requirements, data protection

26

* * *

Table of Contents

authority investigations, legal proceedings by international governmental
entities or others resulting in mandated disclosure of sensitive data or other
commercially unfavorable terms. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect the
security and integrity of our customers' personal information, we may be
required to expend significant resources to comply with data breach
requirements if, for example, third parties improperly obtain and use the
personal information of our customers or we otherwise experience a data loss
with respect to the personal information we process and handle. A major breach
of our network security and systems may occur despite defensive measures, and
may result in fines, penalties and damages and harm our brand, prospects and
operating results.

We could be subject to liability, penalties and other restrictive sanctions
and adverse consequences arising out of certain governmental investigations
and proceedings.

We are cooperating with certain government investigations as discussed in Note
15, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements
included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. To our knowledge, no
government agency in any such ongoing investigation has concluded that any
wrongdoing occurred. However, we cannot predict the outcome or impact of any
such ongoing matters, and there exists the possibility that we could be
subject to liability, penalties and other restrictive sanctions and adverse
consequences if the SEC, the U.S. Department of Justice or any other
government agency were to pursue legal action in the future. Moreover, we
expect to incur costs in responding to related requests for information and
subpoenas, and if instituted, in defending against any governmental
proceedings.

We may face regulatory challenges to or limitations on our ability to sell
vehicles directly.

While we intend to continue to leverage our most effective sales strategies,
including sales through our website, we may not be able to sell our vehicles
through our own stores in certain states in the U.S. with laws that may be
interpreted to impose limitations on this direct-to-consumer sales model. It
has also been asserted that the laws in some states limit our ability to
obtain dealer licenses from state motor vehicle regulators, and such
assertions persist. In certain locations, decisions by regulators permitting
us to sell vehicles have been, and may be, challenged by dealer associations
and others as to whether such decisions comply with applicable state motor
vehicle industry laws. We have prevailed in many of these lawsuits and such
results have reinforced our continuing belief that state franchise laws were
not intended to apply to a manufacturer that does not have franchise dealers
anywhere in the world. In some states, there have also been regulatory and
legislative efforts by dealer associations to propose laws that, if enacted,
would prevent us from obtaining dealer licenses in their states given our
current sales model. A few states have passed legislation that clarifies our
ability to operate, but at the same time limits the number of dealer licenses
we can obtain or stores that we can operate. The application of state laws
applicable to our operations continues to be difficult to predict.

Internationally, there may be laws in jurisdictions we have not yet entered or
laws we are unaware of in jurisdictions we have entered that may restrict our
sales or other business practices. Even for those jurisdictions we have
analyzed, the laws in this area can be complex, difficult to interpret and may
change over time. Continued regulatory limitations and other obstacles
interfering with our ability to sell vehicles directly to consumers may harm
our financial condition and operating results.

Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock

The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile.

The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and could
continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors,
some of which are beyond our control. Our common stock has experienced over
the last 52 weeks an intra-day trading high of $299.29 per share and a low of
$152.37 per share. The stock market in general, and the market for technology
companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations
that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating
performance of those companies. In particular, a large proportion of our
common stock has been historically and may in the future be traded by short
sellers which may put pressure on the supply and demand for our common stock,
further influencing volatility in its market price. Public perception of our
company or management and other factors outside of our control may
additionally impact the stock price of companies like us that garner a
disproportionate degree of public attention, regardless of actual operating
performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the
overall market or the market price of our shares, securities class action
litigation has been filed against us. While we defend such actions vigorously,
any judgment against us or any future stockholder litigation could result in
substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.

27

* * *

Table of Contents

Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period due to
fluctuations in our operating costs and other factors.

We expect our period-to-period financial results to vary based on our
operating costs, which we anticipate will fluctuate as the pace at which we
continue to design, develop and manufacture new products and increase
production capacity by expanding our current manufacturing facilities and
adding future facilities, may not be consistent or linear between periods.
Additionally, our revenues from period to period may fluctuate as we introduce
existing products to new markets for the first time and as we develop and
introduce new products. As a result of these factors, we believe that quarter-
to-quarter comparisons of our financial results, especially in the short term,
are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied
upon as indicators of future performance. Moreover, our financial results may
not meet expectations of equity research analysts, ratings agencies or
investors, who may be focused only on short-term quarterly financial results.
If any of this occurs, the trading price of our stock could fall
substantially, either suddenly or over time.

We may fail to meet our publicly announced guidance or other expectations
about our business, which could cause our stock price to decline.

We provide from time to time guidance regarding our expected financial and
business performance. Correctly identifying key factors affecting business
conditions and predicting future events is inherently an uncertain process,
and our guidance may not ultimately be accurate and has in the past been
inaccurate in certain respects, such as the timing of new product
manufacturing ramps. Our guidance is based on certain assumptions such as
those relating to anticipated production and sales volumes (which generally
are not linear throughout a given period), average sales prices, supplier and
commodity costs and planned cost reductions. If our guidance varies from
actual results, such as due to our assumptions not being met or the impact on
our financial performance that could occur as a result of various risks and
uncertainties, the market value of our common stock could decline
significantly.

If Elon Musk were forced to sell shares of our common stock, either that he
has pledged to secure certain personal loan obligations, or in satisfaction of
other obligations, such sales could cause our stock price to decline.

Certain banking institutions have made extensions of credit to Elon Musk, our
Chief Executive Officer, a portion of which was used to purchase shares of
common stock in certain of our public offerings and private placements at the
same prices offered to third-party participants in such offerings and
placements. We are not a party to these loans, which are partially secured by
pledges of a portion of the Tesla common stock currently owned by Mr. Musk. If
the price of our common stock were to decline substantially, Mr. Musk may be
forced by one or more of the banking institutions to sell shares of Tesla
common stock to satisfy his loan obligations if he could not do so through
other means. Any such sales could cause the price of our common stock to
decline further. Further, Mr. Musk from time to time may commit to investing
in significant business or other ventures, and as a result, be required to
sell shares of our common stock in satisfaction of such commitments.

Anti-takeover provisions contained in our governing documents, applicable laws
and our convertible senior notes could impair a takeover attempt.

Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws afford certain rights and powers
to our board of directors that may facilitate the delay or prevention of an
acquisition that it deems undesirable. We are also subject to Section 203 of
the Delaware General Corporation Law and other provisions of Delaware law that
limit the ability of stockholders in certain situations to effect certain
business combinations. In addition, the terms of our convertible senior notes
may require us to repurchase such notes in the event of a fundamental change,
including a takeover of our company. Any of the foregoing provisions and terms
that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit
the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of
our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are
willing to pay for our common stock.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

28

* * *

  

ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY

  

Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy

We recognize the importance of assessing, identifying, and managing material
risks associated with cybersecurity threats, as such term is defined in Item
106(a) of Regulation S-K. These risks include, among other things: operational
risks, intellectual property theft, fraud, extortion, harm to employees or
customers and violation of data privacy or security laws.

Identifying and assessing cybersecurity risk is integrated into our overall
risk management systems and processes. Cybersecurity risks related to our
business, technical operations, privacy and compliance issues are identified
and addressed through a multi-faceted approach including third party
assessments, internal IT Audit, IT security, governance, risk and compliance
reviews. To defend, detect and respond to cybersecurity incidents, we, among
other things: conduct proactive privacy and cybersecurity reviews of systems
and applications, audit applicable data policies, perform penetration testing
using external third-party tools and techniques to test security controls,
operate a bug bounty program to encourage proactive vulnerability reporting,
conduct employee training, monitor emerging laws and regulations related to
data protection and information security (including our consumer products) and
implement appropriate changes.

We have implemented incident response and breach management processes which
have four overarching and interconnected stages: 1) preparation for a
cybersecurity incident, 2) detection and analysis of a security incident, 3)
containment, eradication and recovery, and 4) post-incident analysis. Such
incident responses are overseen by leaders from our Information Security,
Product Security, Compliance and Legal teams regarding matters of
cybersecurity.

Security events and data incidents are evaluated, ranked by severity and
prioritized for response and remediation. Incidents are evaluated to determine
materiality as well as operational and business impact, and reviewed for
privacy impact.

We also conduct tabletop exercises to simulate responses to cybersecurity
incidents. Our team of cybersecurity professionals then collaborate with
technical and business stakeholders across our business units to further
analyze the risk to the company, and form detection, mitigation and
remediation strategies.

As part of the above processes, we regularly engage external auditors and
consultants to assess our internal cybersecurity programs and compliance with
applicable practices and standards. As of 2023, our Information Security
Management System has been certified to conform to the requirements of ISO/IEC
27001:2013.

Our risk management program also assesses third party risks, and we perform
third-party risk management to identify and mitigate risks from third parties
such as vendors, suppliers, and other business partners associated with our
use of third-party service providers. Cybersecurity risks are evaluated when
determining the selection and oversight of applicable third-party service
providers and potential fourth-party risks when handling and/or processing our
employee, business or customer data. In addition to new vendor onboarding, we
perform risk management during third-party cybersecurity compromise incidents
to identify and mitigate risks to us from third-party incidents.

We describe whether and how risks from identified cybersecurity threats,
including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incidents, have materially
affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our
business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition, under the
heading "Our information technology systems or data, or those of our service
providers or customers or users could be subject to cyber-attacks or other
security incidents, which could result in data breaches, intellectual property
theft, claims, litigation, regulatory investigations, significant liability,
reputational damage and other adverse consequences" included as part of our
risk factor disclosures at Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

  

Cybersecurity Governance

Cybersecurity is an important part of our risk management processes and an
area of focus for our Board and management. Our Audit Committee is responsible
for the oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats. Members of the Audit
Committee receive updates on a quarterly basis from senior management,
including leaders from our Information Security, Product Security, Compliance
and Legal teams regarding matters of cybersecurity. This includes existing and
new cybersecurity risks, status on how management is addressing and/or
mitigating those risks, cybersecurity and data privacy incidents (if any) and
status on key information security initiatives. Our Board members also engage
in ad hoc conversations with management on cybersecurity-related news events
and discuss any updates to our cybersecurity risk management and strategy
programs.

  

29

* * *

  

Our cybersecurity risk management and strategy processes are overseen by
leaders from our Information Security, Product Security, Compliance and Legal
teams. Such individuals have an average of over 15 years of prior work
experience in various roles involving information technology, including
security, auditing, compliance, systems and programming. These individuals are
informed about, and monitor the prevention, mitigation, detection and
remediation of cybersecurity incidents through their management of, and
participation in, the cybersecurity risk management and strategy processes
described above, including the operation of our incident response plan, and
report to the Audit Committee on any appropriate items.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We are headquartered in Austin, Texas. Our principal facilities include a
large number of properties in North America, Europe and Asia utilized for
manufacturing and assembly, warehousing, engineering, retail and service
locations, Supercharger sites and administrative and sales offices. Our
facilities are used to support both of our reporting segments, and are
suitable and adequate for the conduct of our business. We generally lease such
facilities with the primary exception of some manufacturing facilities. The
following table sets forth the location of our primary owned and leased
manufacturing facilities.

| | | | | | | | | | | | | |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Primary Manufacturing Facilities| | Location| | Owned or Leased  
Gigafactory Texas| | Austin, Texas| | Owned  
Fremont Factory| | Fremont, California| | Owned  
Gigafactory Nevada| | Sparks, Nevada| | Owned  
Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg| | Grunheide, Germany| | Owned  
Gigafactory Shanghai| | Shanghai, China| | *  
Gigafactory New York| | Buffalo, New York| | Leased  
Megafactory| | Lathrop, California| | Leased  
  
*We own the building and the land use rights with an initial term of 50 years. The land use rights are treated as operating lease right-of-use assets.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see Note
15, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements
included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In addition, each of the matters below is being disclosed pursuant to Item 103
of Regulation S-K because it relates to environmental regulations and
aggregate civil penalties that we currently believe could potentially exceed
$1 million. We believe that any proceeding that is material to our business or
financial condition is likely to have potential penalties far in excess of
such amount.

District attorneys in certain California counties conducted an investigation
into Tesla's waste segregation practices pursuant to Cal. Health & Saf. Code §
25100 et seq. and Cal. Civil Code § 1798.80. Tesla has implemented various
remedial measures, including conducting training and audits, and enhancements
to its site waste management programs, and settlement discussions are ongoing.
While the outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time, it is not
currently expected to have a material adverse impact on our business.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

30

* * *

  

PART II

